sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/pds/pds_config.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[section-pds-configuration]]
=== Configuration

[[section-pds-ops]]
==== Operating the {sechub} {pds}
https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/packages?q=pds[Here] you can find ready-to-use container images of the {pds} and {sechub}'s https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/tree/develop/sechub-pds-solutions[{pds} solutions] (security scan products).


===== Docker
The public Docker images can be found at https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/packages?q=pds

A {sechub} {pds} solution can be simply run like this (example: pds-gosec solution)
[source,bash]
----
docker run ghcr.io/mercedes-benz/sechub/pds-gosec
----


===== Kubernetes
We also provide https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/packages?q=helm-charts%2Fpds[Helm charts] for above container images.

You should use a copy of the `values.yaml` and adapt it to your needs.

Example: pds-gosec solution

[source,bash]
----
helm pull oci://ghcr.io/mercedes-benz/sechub/helm-charts/pds-gosec
tar zxf pds-gosec-*.tgz
cp pds-gosec/values.yaml pds-gosec.yaml
# Edit "pds-gosec.yaml" file and change it to suit your needs

# Deploy SecHub server to your Kubernetes:
helm install pds-gosec pds-gosec/ -f ./pds-gosec.yaml
----

TIP: In order to use the {pds} solution from {sechub}, you need to activate it in the https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/blob/develop/sechub-solution/helm/sechub-server/values.yaml[`values.yaml`] of {sechub} server.


include::../shared/pds_options.adoc[]

=== Tech user credentials

Either use system properties

----
pds.techuser.userid
pds.techuser.apitoken
----
or env entries
----
PDS_TECHUSER_USERID
PDS_TECHUSER_APITOKEN
----
to define user credentisals. For apitoken please define encrypted password in spring boot
style - e.g. `{noop}unencrypted`, `{bcrypt}crypted` ...

=== Admin credentials

Either use system properties

----
pds.admin.userid
pds.admin.apitoken
----
or env entries
----
PDS_ADMIN_USERID
PDS_ADMIN_APITOKEN
----
to define admin credentisals. For apitoken please define encrypted password in spring boot
style - e.g. `{noop}unencrypted`, `{bcrypt}crypted` ...


=== Workspace parent folder
With `-Dpds.workspace.rootfolder` or using environment variable `PDS_WORKSPACE_ROOTFOLDER`
workspace location can be defined

[[section-pds-server-config-file]]
=== Server configuration file
PDS reads configuration JSON file on startup.

*Location*

With `-Dpds.config.file=...` or using environment variable `PDS_CONFIG_FILE`
its is possible to set config file path ( when not defined fallback is `./pds-config.json`)


* `product-id` +
     Must be *unique* for this product. Allowed characters are [a-zA-Z0-9_]. Maximum length:30. If it's not inside SERECO listed it must provide general sereco report format from #283.


[source,json]
[[section-pds-server-example-config-file]]
----
include::product_delegation_server_config_example1.json[]
----
[[section-pds-server-describe-config-file]]
<1> `serverId` is a *unique* identifier, which will be used determine a cluster /server. will be used inside logs and
    also to share common database and divide different pds states etc. +
    Allowed characters are [a-zA-Z0-9_]. Maximum length:30  +
    (e.g `FIND_SECURITY_BUGS_CLUSTER` when providing a PDS server for find-security-bugs).
    This is *important* ! Do NOT mix up different PDS clusters with same ID.

<2> product `id` is a unique identifier, which will be used at job configuration time.
    Defines what will be executed and is also the identifier for SERECO to check for dedicated
    report handling +
    Allowed characters are [a-zA-Z0-9_]. Maximum length:30

<3> `path` defines what command / script will be executed.

<4> `scanType` can be either
 - codeScan
 - infraScan
 - webScan

<5> `description` is a free text description

<6> `parameters` area, here we can define optional and mandatory parameters. Those parameters will be available
    in executed processes by environment variables. +
    All other given job parameters will be IGNORED by server - reason: avoid unwanted changes on system environment variables from caller side

<7> `mandatory` parameters - server will not accept jobs without these parameters

<8> a `key`, will be transformed to ENV variable. In the given example `product1.qualititycheck.enabled` will be available in execution process
    as environment variable `PRODUCT1_QUALITYCHECK_ENABLED`.
    the `value`, will be set by {sechub} job call and available in former described ENV entry at execution time.
    {sechub} will
<9> a description of the `key` or the used `default` setup. This is optional and only for information/better understanding.

<10> optional parameters
<11> By defining supported data type `source` we ensure sources are downloaded from storage and automatically extracted.
     If the extraction target folder is empty (e.g. filtering or no source available) the launcher script will NOT be called. +
     Valid entries are `source`, `binary`, `none` or a combination of them as a comma separated list. When not defined as a parameter, the
     {pds} configuration default will be used. If available, the content of `zip` source files will be extracted into `$PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_SOURCES_FOLDER`,
     `tar` archive content containing binaries can be found at `$PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_BINARIES_FOLDER`. +
     The extraction will automatically filter and transform archive content as described at <<data-structure-tar-and-zip-files,data structure definition>>.
     Also the environment variables `$PDS_JOB_HAS_EXTRACTED_SOURCES` and `$PDS_JOB_HAS_EXTRACTED_BINARIES` are automatically defined.

<12> Using `none` will not try to download any ZIP or TAR from storage but does call the caller script even when no data is available.

<13> An optional list of environment variable names which are additionally white listed from PDS script environment cleanup.
     Those entries can also end with an asterisk, in this case every variable name starting with this entry will 
     be whitelisted (e.g. `SPECIAL_VAR_*` woud white list `SPECIAL_VAR_CONNECTION_URL` etc.) +
     The PDS script cleanup process prevents inheritage of environment variables from PDS parent process.
     There are some also some default variable names which are automatically accepted (e.g. `HOME`, `PATH`, ..).
     

=== Launcher scripts

==== Generated variables

[options="header",cols="1,2"]
|===
|Variable name                      |Description
//-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|PDS_JOB_WORKSPACE_LOCATION         | The workspace job root location
|PDS_JOB_RESULT_FILE                | The absolute path to the result file _(this file contains security findings)_.
|PDS_JOB_UUID                       | The UUID of the current running PDS job.
[[table-link-pds-launcher-script-variable-events]]
|PDS_JOB_EVENTS_FOLDER              | The absolute path to the user <<section-config-events,events folder>>.
[[table-link-pds-launcher-script-variable-messages]]
|PDS_JOB_USER_MESSAGES_FOLDER      a| The absolute path to the user <<section-config-messaging,messages folder>>.

Every text file which is found inside this folder will be returned to user inside reports and status.

There is a <<example-shared-messaging,snippet for bash>> to create unique names.


When a file starts with

- `ERROR_` the user message will be of type `error`.
- `WARNING_` the user message will be of type `warning`.
- None of the former ones, the corresponding SecHubMessage will be of type `info`.

The files must be simple text files and can contain multiple lines.

[TIP]
====
It is necessary to use always unique names for new user messages - because otherwise you
would overwrite the old ones. The <<section-shared-concepts-product-message-pds-dataflow,PDS message data flow>> describes
how the data is gathered.
====


|PDS_JOB_SOURCECODE_ZIP_FILE        | The absolute path to the uploaded "sourcecode.zip" file
|PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_SOURCES_FOLDER   | When auto extracting is enabled (default) the uploaded source code is extracted to this folder
|PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_BINARIES_FOLDER  | When auto extracting is enabled (default) the uploaded binaries are extracted to this folder
|PDS_SCAN_TARGET_URL                | Target URL for current scan (e.g webscan). Will not be set in all scan types. E.g. for a code scan this environemnt variable will not be available
|PDS_SCAN_CONFIGURATION             | Contains the SecHub configuration as JSON _(but reduced to current scan type, so e.g. a web scan will have no code scan configuration data available)_ +
                                      +
                                      For details about the exact format please look into https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/sechub-client.html[SecHub client documentation] . If you are using
                                      a Java wrapper application inside your PDS scripts, those can use the `sechub-commons-model` java library which contains `SecHubScanConfiguration.java`
                                      _(Usage is described in JavaDoc)_.
|SECHUB_JOB_UUID                    | The corresponding {sechub} job UUID
|PDS_SCAN_TARGET_TYPE 				| The network target type of the target URL. Possible values are: INTERNET, INTRANET. The network target type is injected by SecHub automatically.
									  It does not need to be specified explicitly in the PDS Configuration file.
|===

==== Parameter variables
The parameters described inside the <<section-pds-server-example-config-file,example configuration>> are defined at {sechub} side in
Product executor configurations or automatically generated. +
At execution time these parameters are sent by {sechub} to {pds}. Some are also available inside launcher scripts as environment variables.


It is possible define custom parameters for {pds} solutions in the <<section-pds-server-example-config-file, configuration>> file.
Mandatory parts are always present, optional ones can be empty.

We have following standard parameters:

include::../gen/gen_pds_executor_config_parameters.adoc[]



==== File locations

===== Upload
`$PDS_JOB_WORKSPACE_LOCATION/upload/`

Automatically unzipped content is available inside +
`$PDS_JOB_WORKSPACE_LOCATION/upload/unzipped`

===== Output

Following files are reserved

- system-err.log _(created automatically by PDS)_ +
  `$PDS_JOB_WORKSPACE_LOCATION/output/system-err.log`

- `system-out.log _(created automatically by PDS)_+
   $PDS_JOB_WORKSPACE_LOCATION/output/system-out.log`

- *result.txt* - this is the result file which *must be created by the executed script* +
  `$PDS_JOB_WORKSPACE_LOCATION/output/result.txt`.
  The path is represented by the variable `PDS_JOB_RESULT_FILE`

[[section-config-events]]
==== Events
Inside the folder defined in <<table-link-pds-launcher-script-variable-events,PDS_JOB_EVENTS_FOLDER>> the PDS
writes events as json files inside.

Inside the event json file some standard information are always available (event type, creation time stamp ) and
some dedicated, event specific details.

===== Cancel requested
When a file called `cancel_requested.json` is inside this folder, the PDS informs the script, that a cancel operation is ongoing.
Depending on the {pds} setup, the {pds} cancel service will wait a dedicated time for the script to finish. The time for the check operations and te
amount of seconds the {pds} will wait for the script is contained in JSON.

If a {pds} script (or a wrapper application executed by the script) has no special cleanup or follow up tasks on a cancel operation, the event can be ignored.
But if there are operations to do (e.g. trigger/route the cancel to a 3rd party system) the script or the wrapper should check periodically if the
event file is created. When the file exists, the necessary steps should be done by script (or wrapper application).



[[section-config-messaging]]
==== Product messages
We can write text files into the folder defined in <<table-link-pds-launcher-script-variable-messages,PDS_JOB_USER_MESSAGES_FOLDER>>
to send product messages back to users.

Info, error and warnings will be available inside the {sechub} report and also inside the job status for the user.

===== Snippets
[[example-shared-messaging]]
====== Bash messaging
Here a working solution for creating unique message files from bash scripts:
[source, bash]
----
include::../../../../../..//sechub-integrationtest/pds/product-scripts/shared/shared-messaging-referenced-in-documentation-as-example.sh[]
----
Usage:

[source, bash]
----
include::../../../../../..//sechub-integrationtest/pds/product-scripts/shared/shared-messaging-referenced-in-documentation-as-example-usage.sh[]
----


The former call did create following message files which contain the given text parts:
----
include::../../../../../..//sechub-integrationtest/pds/product-scripts/shared/shared-messaging-referenced-in-documentation-as-example-output.txt[]
----

Commit message:

Implemented PDS asset handling #3524
- introduced new usecase for PDS job execution
  (makes it easier for developers to find the relevant parts)

sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/pds/pds_config.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[section-pds-configuration]]
=== Configuration

[[section-pds-ops]]
==== Operating the {sechub} {pds}
https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/packages?q=pds[Here] you can find ready-to-use container images of the {pds} and {sechub}'s https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/tree/develop/sechub-pds-solutions[{pds} solutions] (security scan products).


===== Docker
The public Docker images can be found at https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/packages?q=pds

A {sechub} {pds} solution can be simply run like this (example: pds-gosec solution)
[source,bash]
----
docker run ghcr.io/mercedes-benz/sechub/pds-gosec
----


===== Kubernetes
We also provide https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/packages?q=helm-charts%2Fpds[Helm charts] for above container images.

You should use a copy of the `values.yaml` and adapt it to your needs.

Example: pds-gosec solution

[source,bash]
----
helm pull oci://ghcr.io/mercedes-benz/sechub/helm-charts/pds-gosec
tar zxf pds-gosec-*.tgz
cp pds-gosec/values.yaml pds-gosec.yaml
# Edit "pds-gosec.yaml" file and change it to suit your needs

# Deploy SecHub server to your Kubernetes:
helm install pds-gosec pds-gosec/ -f ./pds-gosec.yaml
----

TIP: In order to use the {pds} solution from {sechub}, you need to activate it in the https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/blob/develop/sechub-solution/helm/sechub-server/values.yaml[`values.yaml`] of {sechub} server.


include::../shared/pds_options.adoc[]

=== Tech user credentials

Either use system properties

----
pds.techuser.userid
pds.techuser.apitoken
----
or environment variables
----
PDS_TECHUSER_USERID
PDS_TECHUSER_APITOKEN
----
to define user credentisals. For apitoken please define encrypted password in spring boot
style - e.g. `{noop}unencrypted`, `{bcrypt}crypted` ...

=== Admin credentials

Either use system properties

----
pds.admin.userid
pds.admin.apitoken
----
or env entries
----
PDS_ADMIN_USERID
PDS_ADMIN_APITOKEN
----
to define admin credentisals. For apitoken please define encrypted password in spring boot
style - e.g. `{noop}unencrypted`, `{bcrypt}crypted` ...


=== Workspace parent folder
With `-Dpds.workspace.rootfolder` or using environment variable `PDS_WORKSPACE_ROOTFOLDER`
workspace location can be defined

[[section-pds-server-config-file]]
=== Server configuration file
PDS reads configuration JSON file on startup.

*Location*

With `-Dpds.config.file=...` or using environment variable `PDS_CONFIG_FILE`
its is possible to set config file path ( when not defined fallback is `./pds-config.json`)


* `product-id` +
     Must be *unique* for this product. Allowed characters are [a-zA-Z0-9_]. Maximum length:30. If it's not inside SERECO listed it must provide general sereco report format from #283.


[source,json]
[[section-pds-server-example-config-file]]
----
include::product_delegation_server_config_example1.json[]
----
[[section-pds-server-describe-config-file]]
<1> `serverId` is a *unique* identifier, which will be used determine a cluster /server. will be used inside logs and
    also to share common database and divide different pds states etc. +
    Allowed characters are [a-zA-Z0-9_]. Maximum length:30  +
    (e.g `FIND_SECURITY_BUGS_CLUSTER` when providing a PDS server for find-security-bugs).
    This is *important* ! Do NOT mix up different PDS clusters with same ID.

<2> product `id` is a unique identifier, which will be used at job configuration time.
    Defines what will be executed and is also the identifier for SERECO to check for dedicated
    report handling +
    Allowed characters are [a-zA-Z0-9_]. Maximum length:30

<3> `path` defines what command / script will be executed.

<4> `scanType` can be either
 - codeScan
 - infraScan
 - webScan

<5> `description` is a free text description

<6> `parameters` area, here we can define optional and mandatory parameters. Those parameters will be available
    in executed processes by environment variables. +
    All other given job parameters will be IGNORED by server - reason: avoid unwanted changes on system environment variables from caller side

<7> `mandatory` parameters - server will not accept jobs without these parameters

<8> a `key`, will be transformed to ENV variable. In the given example `product1.qualititycheck.enabled` will be available in execution process
    as environment variable `PRODUCT1_QUALITYCHECK_ENABLED`.
    the `value`, will be set by {sechub} job call and available in former described ENV entry at execution time.
    {sechub} will
<9> a description of the `key` or the used `default` setup. This is optional and only for information/better understanding.

<10> optional parameters
<11> By defining supported data type `source` we ensure sources are downloaded from storage and automatically extracted.
     If the extraction target folder is empty (e.g. filtering or no source available) the launcher script will NOT be called. +
     Valid entries are `source`, `binary`, `none` or a combination of them as a comma separated list. When not defined as a parameter, the
     {pds} configuration default will be used. If available, the content of `zip` source files will be extracted into `$PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_SOURCES_FOLDER`,
     `tar` archive content containing binaries can be found at `$PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_BINARIES_FOLDER`. +
     The extraction will automatically filter and transform archive content as described at <<data-structure-tar-and-zip-files,data structure definition>>.
     Also the environment variables `$PDS_JOB_HAS_EXTRACTED_SOURCES` and `$PDS_JOB_HAS_EXTRACTED_BINARIES` are automatically defined.

<12> Using `none` will not try to download any ZIP or TAR from storage but does call the caller script even when no data is available.

<13> An optional list of environment variable names which are additionally white listed from PDS script environment cleanup.
     Those entries can also end with an asterisk, in this case every variable name starting with this entry will 
     be whitelisted (e.g. `SPECIAL_VAR_*` woud white list `SPECIAL_VAR_CONNECTION_URL` etc.) +
     The PDS script cleanup process prevents inheritage of environment variables from PDS parent process.
     There are some also some default variable names which are automatically accepted (e.g. `HOME`, `PATH`, ..).
     

=== Launcher scripts

==== Generated variables

[options="header",cols="1,2"]
|===
|Variable name                      |Description
//-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|PDS_JOB_WORKSPACE_LOCATION         | The workspace job root location
|PDS_JOB_RESULT_FILE                | The absolute path to the result file _(this file contains security findings)_.
|PDS_JOB_UUID                       | The UUID of the current running PDS job.
[[table-link-pds-launcher-script-variable-events]]
|PDS_JOB_EVENTS_FOLDER              | The absolute path to the user <<section-config-events,events folder>>.
[[table-link-pds-launcher-script-variable-messages]]
|PDS_JOB_USER_MESSAGES_FOLDER      a| The absolute path to the user <<section-config-messaging,messages folder>>.

Every text file which is found inside this folder will be returned to user inside reports and status.

There is a <<example-shared-messaging,snippet for bash>> to create unique names.


When a file starts with

- `ERROR_` the user message will be of type `error`.
- `WARNING_` the user message will be of type `warning`.
- None of the former ones, the corresponding SecHubMessage will be of type `info`.

The files must be simple text files and can contain multiple lines.

[TIP]
====
It is necessary to use always unique names for new user messages - because otherwise you
would overwrite the old ones. The <<section-shared-concepts-product-message-pds-dataflow,PDS message data flow>> describes
how the data is gathered.
====


|PDS_JOB_SOURCECODE_ZIP_FILE        | The absolute path to the uploaded "sourcecode.zip" file
|PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_SOURCES_FOLDER   | When auto extracting is enabled (default) the uploaded source code is extracted to this folder
|PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_BINARIES_FOLDER  | When auto extracting is enabled (default) the uploaded binaries are extracted to this folder
|PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_ASSETS_FOLDER    | The absolute path to the extracted assets. +
 + 
                                      Files for template types are located in dedicated sub folders which are named by the id of the template type. + +
 +
                                      For example: WEBSCAN_LOGIN template type has id: `webscan-login`. To access the file `custom-login.groovy` a script
                                      or a wrapper application can simply fetch the file via `$PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_ASSETS_FOLDER/webscan-login/custom-login.groovy`. 
|PDS_SCAN_TARGET_URL                | Target URL for current scan (e.g webscan). Will not be set in all scan types. E.g. for a code scan this environemnt variable will not be available
|PDS_SCAN_CONFIGURATION             | Contains the SecHub configuration as JSON _(but reduced to current scan type, so e.g. a web scan will have no code scan configuration data available)_ +
                                      +
                                      For details about the exact format please look into https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/sechub-client.html[SecHub client documentation] . If you are using
                                      a Java wrapper application inside your PDS scripts, those can use the `sechub-commons-model` java library which contains `SecHubScanConfiguration.java`
                                      _(Usage is described in JavaDoc)_.
|SECHUB_JOB_UUID                    | The corresponding {sechub} job UUID
|PDS_SCAN_TARGET_TYPE 				| The network target type of the target URL. Possible values are: INTERNET, INTRANET. The network target type is injected by SecHub automatically.
									  It does not need to be specified explicitly in the PDS Configuration file.
|===

==== Parameter variables
The parameters described inside the <<section-pds-server-example-config-file,example configuration>> are defined at {sechub} side in
Product executor configurations or automatically generated. +
At execution time these parameters are sent by {sechub} to {pds}. Some are also available inside launcher scripts as environment variables.


It is possible define custom parameters for {pds} solutions in the <<section-pds-server-example-config-file, configuration>> file.
Mandatory parts are always present, optional ones can be empty.

We have following standard parameters:

include::../gen/gen_pds_executor_config_parameters.adoc[]



==== File locations

===== Upload
Content from uploaded user archives is extracted to:

`PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_SOURCES_FOLDER`,

`PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_BINARIES_FOLDER`

Content from uploaded asset files is extracted to:
 `PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_ASSETS_FOLDER`,


===== Output

Following files are reserved

- system-err.log _(created automatically by PDS)_ +
  `$PDS_JOB_WORKSPACE_LOCATION/output/system-err.log`

- `system-out.log _(created automatically by PDS)_+
   $PDS_JOB_WORKSPACE_LOCATION/output/system-out.log`

- *result.txt* - this is the result file which *must be created by the executed script* +
  `$PDS_JOB_WORKSPACE_LOCATION/output/result.txt`.
  The path is represented by the variable `PDS_JOB_RESULT_FILE`

[[section-config-events]]
==== Events
Inside the folder defined in <<table-link-pds-launcher-script-variable-events,PDS_JOB_EVENTS_FOLDER>> the PDS
writes events as json files inside.

Inside the event json file some standard information are always available (event type, creation time stamp ) and
some dedicated, event specific details.

===== Cancel requested
When a file called `cancel_requested.json` is inside this folder, the PDS informs the script, that a cancel operation is ongoing.
Depending on the {pds} setup, the {pds} cancel service will wait a dedicated time for the script to finish. The time for the check operations and te
amount of seconds the {pds} will wait for the script is contained in JSON.

If a {pds} script (or a wrapper application executed by the script) has no special cleanup or follow up tasks on a cancel operation, the event can be ignored.
But if there are operations to do (e.g. trigger/route the cancel to a 3rd party system) the script or the wrapper should check periodically if the
event file is created. When the file exists, the necessary steps should be done by script (or wrapper application).



[[section-config-messaging]]
==== Product messages
We can write text files into the folder defined in <<table-link-pds-launcher-script-variable-messages,PDS_JOB_USER_MESSAGES_FOLDER>>
to send product messages back to users.

Info, error and warnings will be available inside the {sechub} report and also inside the job status for the user.

===== Snippets
[[example-shared-messaging]]
====== Bash messaging
Here a working solution for creating unique message files from bash scripts:
[source, bash]
----
include::../../../../../..//sechub-integrationtest/pds/product-scripts/shared/shared-messaging-referenced-in-documentation-as-example.sh[]
----
Usage:

[source, bash]
----
include::../../../../../..//sechub-integrationtest/pds/product-scripts/shared/shared-messaging-referenced-in-documentation-as-example-usage.sh[]
----


The former call did create following message files which contain the given text parts:
----
include::../../../../../..//sechub-integrationtest/pds/product-scripts/shared/shared-messaging-referenced-in-documentation-as-example-output.txt[]
----
