sechub-pds-solutions/gitleaks/README.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

:toc:
:numbered:

= Gitleaks + PDS

https://github.com/zricethezav/gitleaks[Gitleaks] is a free and open source secret scanner tool. Gitleaks is a command line interface (CLI) tool. By combining Gitleaks  with the SecHub https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/sechub-product-delegation-server.html[Product Delegation Server (PDS)] in a container, Gitleaks can be used with SecHub. Another scenario is to use Gitleaks+PDS standalone.

Furthermore, the combination of Gitleaks and PDS makes it possible to run both inside a Kubernetes cluser or virtual machines.

This folder contains the necessary scripts to run Gitleaks+PDS inside a container locally.

== Run Locally

This is the easiest way to get started.

=== Requirements

Docker and Docker-Compose need to be installed:

. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/[Install Docker]

. Linux: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/#manage-docker-as-a-non-root-user[Use Docker as non Root user]

. https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Install Docker-Compose]

=== Single Instance

Start a single instance by using the Bash wrapper script which does setup everything automatically for you.

==== Scan script

The folder contains a start script which does the manual steps for you:

----
./01-start-docker-compose.sh
----

==== Together with SecHub

The container will be started and attached to the `sechub` Network.

WARNING: Make sure the SecHub container is running.

. Start container:
+
----
./05-start-single-sechub-network-docker-compose.sh
----

=== Scan

The scan script scans using the Gitleaks+PDS solution directly.

. Set the environment variables
+
----
export PDS_SERVER=https://<pds-host>:<port>
export PDS_USERID=admin
export PDS_APITOKEN="<pds-admin-apitoken>"
export PDS_PRODUCT_IDENTFIER=PDS_GITLEAKS
----
+
For example:
+
----
export PDS_SERVER=https://localhost:8444
export PDS_USERID=admin
export PDS_APITOKEN="pds-apitoken"
export PDS_PRODUCT_IDENTFIER=PDS_GITLEAKS
----
+
[NOTE]
Those values are the default values from `env-initial` and `env-cluster-initial` files. In case you run Gitleaks+PDS in Kubernetes or other environments those values will be different.

. Scan by providing a `ZIP` folder with source code containing secrets.
+
----
cd sechub/sechub-solutions-shared/scripts
./01-test.sh <path-to-zip-file>
----
+
For example:
+
----
cd sechub/sechub-solutions-shared/scripts
./01-test.sh ~/myproject.zip
----

=== Change the Configuration

There are several configuration options available for the Gitleaks+PDS `docker-compose` files. Have a look at `.env` and `.env-single` for more details.

=== Troubleshooting

This section contains information about how to troubleshoot Gitleaks+PDS if something goes wrong.

==== Access the container

----
docker exec -it pds-gitleaks bash
----

==== Java Application Remote Debugging of PDS

. Set `JAVA_ENABLE_DEBUG=true` in the `.env` file

. Connect via remote debugging to the `pds`
+
connect via CLI
+
----
jdb -attach localhost:15024
----
+
TIP: https://www.baeldung.com/java-application-remote-debugging[Java Application Remote Debugging] and https://www.tutorialspoint.com/jdb/jdb_basic_commands.htm[JDB - Basic Commands]
+
or connect via IDE (e. g. Eclipse IDE, VSCodium, Eclipse Theia, IntelliJ etc.).
+
TIP: https://www.eclipse.org/community/eclipse_newsletter/2017/june/article1.php[Debugging the Eclipse IDE for Java Developers]

== Build Image and Push to Registry

Build container images and push them to registry to run Gitleaks+PDS on virtual machines, Kubernetes or any other distributed system.

=== Build Image

Build the container image.

==== Build

. Using the default image:
+
----
./10-create-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_gitleaks v0.1
----

. Using your own base image:
+
----
./10-create-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_gitleaks v0.1 "my.registry.example.org/pds-base"
----

=== Push Image to Registry

Push the container image to a registry.

* Push the version tag only
+
----
./20-push-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_gitleaks v0.1
----

* Push the version and `latest` tags
+
----
./20-push-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_gitleaks v0.1 yes
----

Commit message:

integrate secretvalidation-wrapper part 3 + docs updated #3365

sechub-pds-solutions/gitleaks/README.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

:toc:
:numbered:

= Gitleaks + PDS

https://github.com/zricethezav/gitleaks[Gitleaks] is a free and open source secret scanner tool. Gitleaks is a command line interface (CLI) tool. By combining Gitleaks  with the SecHub https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/sechub-product-delegation-server.html[Product Delegation Server (PDS)] in a container, Gitleaks can be used with SecHub. Another scenario is to use Gitleaks+PDS standalone.

As an addition we have developed the SecHub Secret-Validation Wrapper. With its help, you can try to validate found possible secrets.
If the validation can be done then the severity of that finding will be set to "critical" because the finding is confirmed.
You can find details in the `sechub-wrapper-secretvalidation/` folder in this repository.

Furthermore, the combination of Gitleaks and PDS makes it possible to run both inside a Kubernetes cluser or virtual machines.

This folder contains the necessary scripts to run Gitleaks+PDS inside a container locally.

== Run Locally

This is the easiest way to get started.

=== Requirements

Docker and Docker-Compose need to be installed:

. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/[Install Docker]

. Linux: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/#manage-docker-as-a-non-root-user[Use Docker as non Root user]

. https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Install Docker-Compose]

=== Single Instance

Start a single instance by using the Bash wrapper script which does setup everything automatically for you.

==== Scan script

The folder contains a start script which does the manual steps for you:

----
./01-start-docker-compose.sh
----

==== Together with SecHub

The container will be started and attached to the `sechub` Network.

WARNING: Make sure the SecHub container is running.

. Start container:
+
----
./05-start-single-sechub-network-docker-compose.sh
----

=== Scan

The scan script scans using the Gitleaks+PDS solution directly.

. Set the environment variables
+
----
export PDS_SERVER=https://<pds-host>:<port>
export PDS_USERID=admin
export PDS_APITOKEN="<pds-admin-apitoken>"
export PDS_PRODUCT_IDENTFIER=PDS_GITLEAKS
----
+
For example:
+
----
export PDS_SERVER=https://localhost:8444
export PDS_USERID=admin
export PDS_APITOKEN="pds-apitoken"
export PDS_PRODUCT_IDENTFIER=PDS_GITLEAKS
----
+
[NOTE]
Those values are the default values from `env-initial` and `env-cluster-initial` files. In case you run Gitleaks+PDS in Kubernetes or other environments those values will be different.

. Scan by providing a `ZIP` folder with source code containing secrets.
+
----
cd sechub/sechub-solutions-shared/scripts
./01-test.sh <path-to-zip-file>
----
+
For example:
+
----
cd sechub/sechub-solutions-shared/scripts
./01-test.sh ~/myproject.zip
----

=== Change the Configuration

There are several configuration options available for the Gitleaks+PDS `docker-compose` files. Have a look at `.env` and `.env-single` for more details.

=== Troubleshooting

This section contains information about how to troubleshoot Gitleaks+PDS if something goes wrong.

==== Access the container

----
docker exec -it pds-gitleaks bash
----

==== Java Application Remote Debugging of PDS

. Set `JAVA_ENABLE_DEBUG=true` in the `.env` file

. Connect via remote debugging to the `pds`
+
connect via CLI
+
----
jdb -attach localhost:15024
----
+
TIP: https://www.baeldung.com/java-application-remote-debugging[Java Application Remote Debugging] and https://www.tutorialspoint.com/jdb/jdb_basic_commands.htm[JDB - Basic Commands]
+
or connect via IDE (e. g. Eclipse IDE, VSCodium, Eclipse Theia, IntelliJ etc.).
+
TIP: https://www.eclipse.org/community/eclipse_newsletter/2017/june/article1.php[Debugging the Eclipse IDE for Java Developers]

== Build Image and Push to Registry

Build container images and push them to registry to run Gitleaks+PDS on virtual machines, Kubernetes or any other distributed system.

=== Build Image

Build the container image.

==== Build

. Using the default image:
+
----
./10-create-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_gitleaks v0.1
----

. Using your own base image:
+
----
./10-create-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_gitleaks v0.1 "my.registry.example.org/pds-base"
----

=== Push Image to Registry

Push the container image to a registry.

* Push the version tag only
+
----
./20-push-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_gitleaks v0.1
----

* Push the version and `latest` tags
+
----
./20-push-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_gitleaks v0.1 yes
----
