sechub-web-ui-solution/README.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

== Web UI Image

The files to create the Web UI container image.

The Web UI is a Vue.js SPA build with nuxt.js.

=== Local Web-UI Frontend and SecHub Server SetUp

1. Please adjust the docker/nginx/nginx.conf file to your needs. +
replace the redirect URL to your local sechub server: e.g. https://sechub:8443 +
remove the root `redirect / to login page` if you do not have login enabled in the sechub server.

2. Adjust the docker/nginx/config.json to your needs: +
+
If you do not have login enabled, you can set basic auth for the Web-UI in the config.json file. in docker/nginx/ +
The values can be changed at runtime +
+
.ENV that can be set in the config.json file
|===
|Name |Default Value |Description

|BASIC_AUTH_DEV
|false
|Sets Basic Auth for the Web-UI (only for development, username and password must be set)

|USERNAME
|undefined
|Basic Auth username (only for development)

|PASSWORD
|undefined
|Basic Auth password (only for development)
|===

3. Start the sechub server docker container in sechub/sechub-solution +
+
----
./01-start-single-docker-compose.sh
----

4. Start the Web UI docker container in sechub-web-ui-solution +
+
----
./01-start-single-docker-compose.sh
----
+
The command will run the Web UI on localhost as docker container, with nginx as reverse proxy.

5. The webui is available at https://localhost +

Commit message:

Added email and website as ENV #3888

sechub-web-ui-solution/README.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

== Web UI Image

The files to create the Web UI container image.

The Web UI is a Vue.js SPA build with nuxt.js.

=== Local Web-UI Frontend and SecHub Server SetUp

1. Please adjust the docker/nginx/nginx.conf file to your needs. +
replace the redirect URL to your local sechub server: e.g. https://sechub:8443 +
remove the root `redirect / to login page` if you do not have login enabled in the sechub server.

2. Adjust the docker/nginx/config.json to your needs: +
+
If you do not have login enabled, you can set basic auth for the Web-UI in the config.json file. in docker/nginx/ +
The values can be changed at runtime +
+
.ENV that can be set in the config.json file
|===
|Name |Default Value |Description

|BASIC_AUTH_DEV
|false
|Sets Basic Auth for the Web-UI (only for development, username and password must be set)

|USERNAME
|undefined
|Basic Auth username (only for development)

|PASSWORD
|undefined
|Basic Auth password (only for development)

|SECHUB_USER_SUPPORT_EMAIL
|example@example.org
|Support email address for your service shown in the Web UI

|SECHUB_USER_SUPPORT_WEBSITE
|https://sechub.example.org
|Support website for your service shown in the Web UI
|===

3. Start the sechub server docker container in sechub/sechub-solution +
+
----
./01-start-single-docker-compose.sh
----

4. Start the Web UI docker container in sechub-web-ui-solution +
+
----
./01-start-single-docker-compose.sh
----
+
The command will run the Web UI on localhost as docker container, with nginx as reverse proxy.

5. The webui is available at https://localhost +
