sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/techdoc/02_security_in_development.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[section-security-in-development]]
== Security in development

CAUTION: We enable security even in early stage of development! There is no test, no integration test or anything else which would use `http` only!

=== CLI client
There are some options for CLI client which were *not* supposed to be
used in production. So instead of exposing such options by help we
use those by explicit ENV entries
[options="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
|ENV-NAME          |Value    |Description
//-----------------------------------------
|SECHUB_DEBUG      |"true"   |Activates debug logging
|SECHUB_DEBUG_HTTP |"true"   |Shows HTTP request+response contents including headers
|SECHUB_TRUSTALL   |"true"   |Trust all certificates (only for development). The SecHub client shows a warning when `trustall` option is enabled
|===

=== Server
==== Spring Boot Security
Spring boot security is always turned on, no matter if development or in production.

==== Security Configuration

SecHub Server supports two different _modes_ when it comes to security.

- 1) **Classic Mode**: This is the standard SecHub authentication mode. In this mode `Basic Auth` is available for authentication.
Whenever we speak of `Basic Auth`, we refer to this mode.

- 2) **OAuth2 Mode**: Like the name suggests, this mode enables `OAuth2` for authentication.

Both modes can be enabled at the same time, but at least one of them must be enabled.

When running SecHub Server, `Classic Mode` is enabled. This means that you can use `Basic Auth` to authenticate yourself
against the API. Your credentials are provided when starting up the server. You don't have to configure anything else
when running this mode only.

If you want to test `OAuth2` integration with IDPs (Identity Providers) like `Keycloak`, you can do so like this:

[source,yaml]
----
sechub:
  security:
    server:
      modes:
        - oauth2
      oauth2:
        mode: jwt
        jwt:
          jwk-set-uri: <jwk-set-uri-of-your-idp>
----

Note that above configuration assumes that your IDP is configured to work with `JWT` tokens. This is the standard use case
for most applications, but SecHub also supports a different type of token, namely `Opaque Tokens`. If you want to use `Opaque
Tokens`, you have to configure the `mode` to `opaque-token` instead of `jwt`:

[source,yaml]
----
sechub:
  security:
    server:
      modes:
        - oauth2
      oauth2:
        mode: opaque-token
        opaque-token:
          introspection-uri: <introspection-uri-of-your-idp>
          client-id: <client-id>
          client-secret: <client-secret>
          default-token-expires-in: 60m
          max-cache-duration: 1d
----

We recommend `Keycloak` as an IDP for testing purposes. It is easy to set up and provides a lot of features for free.
But you are free to use any other IDP you like.

==== Certificates

For development gradle task `ensureLocalhostCertificate` in `sechub-server` will automatically generate a
localhost server certificate. For details look into task and called bash script.

Commit message:

Provide comma separated list for oauth2 modes #3919
- resource server properties use now comma separated list for modes
- login properties use now comma separated list for modes
- LoginModeOAuth2ActiveCondition changed to separated lists
- SimpleStringUtils enhanced javadoc
- changed all teset configurations
- changed documentation

sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/techdoc/02_security_in_development.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[section-security-in-development]]
== Security in development

CAUTION: We enable security even in early stage of development! There is no test, no integration test or anything else which would use `http` only!

=== CLI client
There are some options for CLI client which were *not* supposed to be
used in production. So instead of exposing such options by help we
use those by explicit ENV entries
[options="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
|ENV-NAME          |Value    |Description
//-----------------------------------------
|SECHUB_DEBUG      |"true"   |Activates debug logging
|SECHUB_DEBUG_HTTP |"true"   |Shows HTTP request+response contents including headers
|SECHUB_TRUSTALL   |"true"   |Trust all certificates (only for development). The SecHub client shows a warning when `trustall` option is enabled
|===

=== Server
==== Spring Boot Security
Spring boot security is always turned on, no matter if development or in production.

==== Security Configuration

SecHub Server supports two different _modes_ when it comes to security.

- 1) **Classic Mode**: This is the standard SecHub authentication mode. In this mode `Basic Auth` is available for authentication.
Whenever we speak of `Basic Auth`, we refer to this mode.

It is the default, but if you want to define it explicit you can use:

[source,yaml]
----
sechub:
  security:
    server:
      modes: classic
----

- 2) **OAuth2 Mode**: Like the name suggests, this mode enables `OAuth2` for authentication.

Both modes can be enabled at the same time, but at least one of them must be enabled.

When running SecHub Server, `Classic Mode` is enabled. This means that you can use `Basic Auth` to authenticate yourself
against the API. Your credentials are provided when starting up the server. You don't have to configure anything else
when running this mode only.

If you want to test `OAuth2` integration with IDPs (Identity Providers) like `Keycloak`, you can do so like this:

[source,yaml]
----
sechub:
  security:
    server:
      modes: oauth2
      oauth2:
        mode: jwt
        jwt:
          jwk-set-uri: <jwk-set-uri-of-your-idp>
----

Note that above configuration assumes that your IDP is configured to work with `JWT` tokens. This is the standard use case
for most applications, but SecHub also supports a different type of token, namely `Opaque Tokens`. If you want to use `Opaque
Tokens`, you have to configure the `mode` to `opaque-token` instead of `jwt`:

[source,yaml]
----
sechub:
  security:
    server:
      modes: oauth2
      oauth2:
        mode: opaque-token
        opaque-token:
          introspection-uri: <introspection-uri-of-your-idp>
          client-id: <client-id>
          client-secret: <client-secret>
          default-token-expires-in: 60m
          max-cache-duration: 1d
----

We recommend `Keycloak` as an IDP for testing purposes. It is easy to set up and provides a lot of features for free.
But you are free to use any other IDP you like.

- 3) **OAuth2 + Classic Mode**

It is possible to use both modes at same time - for example:

[source,yaml]
----
sechub:
  security:
    server:
      modes: oauth2, classic
      oauth2:
        mode: jwt
        jwt:
          jwk-set-uri: <jwk-set-uri-of-your-idp>
----


==== Certificates

For development gradle task `ensureLocalhostCertificate` in `sechub-server` will automatically generate a
localhost server certificate. For details look into task and called bash script.
