sechub-pds-solutions/prepare/README.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

:toc:
:numbered:

= Prepare Wrapper + PDS

This folder contains the scripts necessary to run Prepare Wrapper + PDS locally within a container. It also contains scripts to create the PDS + Prepare container and push it to your container registry, as well as a helm chart to install and run Prepare Wrapper + PDS in a Kubernetes cluster.

== Run Locally

This is the easiest way to get started.

=== Requirements

Docker and Docker-Compose need to be installed:

. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/[Install Docker]

. Linux: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/#manage-docker-as-a-non-root-user[Use Docker as non Root user]

. https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Install Docker-Compose]

=== Single Instance

Start a single instance by using the Bash wrapper script which does setup everything automatically for you.

==== Scan script

The folder contains a start script which does the manual steps for you:

----
./01-start-single-docker-compose.sh
----

==== Together with SecHub

The container will be started and attached to the `sechub` network.

WARNING: Make sure the SecHub container is running and executor for Prepare is set up.

. Start container in local sechub network:
+
----
./05-start-single-sechub-network-docker-compose.sh
----
+
Example sechub.json for prepare a private git repository. Public repositories can be cloned without credentials. Hand over the type is optional but helps to choose the correct prepare module.
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "apiVersion": "1.0",
  "licenseScan": {
    "use": [
      "test-sources"
    ]
  },
  "data": {
    "binaries": [
      {
        "name": "test-sources",
        "remote" : {
            "location" : "https://my-example.com/my-project.git",
            "type": "git",
             "credentials": {
                 "user": {
                    "name": "my-user",
                    "password": "my-git-api-token"
                }
              }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----

Commit message:

Improve prepare application and PDS solution
- Added storage variables as non-spring parameter
- Added additional tags to skopeo wrapper
- Make git-clone into repository name

sechub-pds-solutions/prepare/README.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

:toc:
:numbered:

= Prepare Wrapper + PDS

This folder contains the scripts necessary to run Prepare Wrapper + PDS locally within a container. It also contains scripts to create the PDS + Prepare container and push it to your container registry, as well as a helm chart to install and run Prepare Wrapper + PDS in a Kubernetes cluster.

== Run Locally

This is the easiest way to get started.

=== Requirements

Docker and Docker-Compose need to be installed:

. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/[Install Docker]

. Linux: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/#manage-docker-as-a-non-root-user[Use Docker as non Root user]

. https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Install Docker-Compose]

=== Single Instance

Start a single instance by using the Bash wrapper script which does setup everything automatically for you.

==== Scan script

The folder contains a start script which does the manual steps for you:

----
./01-start-single-docker-compose.sh
----

==== Together with SecHub

The container will be started and attached to the `sechub` network.

WARNING: Make sure the SecHub container is running with compose prepare and executor for Prepare is set up. (./sechub-solution/01-start-single-docker-compose-prepare.sh)

. Start container in local sechub network:
+
----
./05-start-single-sechub-network-docker-compose.sh
----
+
Example sechub.json for prepare a private git repository. Public repositories can be cloned without credentials. Hand over the type is optional but helps to choose the correct prepare module.
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "apiVersion": "1.0",
  "licenseScan": {
    "use": [
      "test-sources"
    ]
  },
  "data": {
    "binaries": [
      {
        "name": "test-sources",
        "remote" : {
            "location" : "https://my-example.com/my-project.git",
            "type": "git",
             "credentials": {
                 "user": {
                    "name": "my-user",
                    "password": "my-git-api-token"
                }
              }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----
