sechub-wrapper-owasp-zap/README.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
== Zap Wrapper

Zap Wrapper CLI for PDS

=== Usage

The wrapper connection to the zaproxy can be configured by using the command line parameters below. Additionally it is possible to use environment variables like that:
All configurations in a way that the command line parameters always overwrite the environment variables.

----
ZAP_HOST=127.0.0.1
ZAP_PORT=8090
ZAP_API_KEY=change-me
----

To Specify an additional proxy you can set the following environment variables or use the corresponding command line options.

----
PROXY_HOST=127.0.0.1
PROXY_PORT=1234
----

To use the wrapper see the help below:

----
Usage: ZapWrapper [options]
  Options:
    --activeScan
      Set this option to enable Zap active scan.
      Default: false
    --ajaxSpider
      Set this option to enable Zap ajaxSpider.
      Default: false
    --ajaxSpiderBrowserId
      Set the browser id you want to use for the AjaxSpider module. Make sure 
      the browser you want to use is installed on the system running the scan. 
      Supported browsers are: [firefox-headless, firefox, chrome-headless, 
      chrome, htmlunit, safari].
      Default: firefox-headless
    --connectionCheck
      Set this option to enable an initial connection check performed by this 
      wrapper application.
      Default: false
    --deactivateRules
      Specify ZAP rule IDs you want to deactivate during the scan. If you 
      specify multiple rule IDs use comma separated values like: 123,456,789
      Default: []
    --groovyLoginScriptFile
      Groovy script file the ZAP wrapper uses for script based authentication 
      when templates are defined. You can also set the environment variable 
      ZAP_GROOVY_LOGIN_SCRIPT_FILE, instead of using this parameter.
    --help
      Shows help and provides information on how to use the wrapper.
    --jobUUID
      The Job-UUID, which will be used as internal identifier for the Zap scan 
      context. 
    --maxNumberOfConnectionRetries
      Maximum number of times the wrapper tries to reach each URL. Including 
      each URL constructed from the sechub includes.
      Default: 3
    --pdsEventFolder
      Folder where the ZAP wrapper listens for events of the PDS, like cancel 
      requests for the current job. You can also set the environment variable 
      PDS_JOB_EVENTS_FOLDER, instead of using this parameter.
    --pdsUserMessageFolder
      Folder where the user messages are written to. You can also set the 
      environment variable PDS_JOB_USER_MESSAGES_FOLDER, instead of using this 
      parameter. 
    --proxyHost
      Specify a proxy host. You can also set the environment variable 
      PROXY_HOST, instead of using this parameter.
    --proxyPassword
      Specify a proxy password. You can also set the environment variable 
      PROXY_PASSWORD, instead of using this parameter.
    --proxyPort
      Specify a proxy port. You can also set the environment variable 
      PROXY_PORT, instead of using this parameter.
      Default: 0
    --proxyRealm
      Specify a proxy realm. You can also set the environment variable 
      PROXY_REALM, instead of using this parameter.
    --proxyUsername
      Specify a proxy username. You can also set the environment variable 
      PROXY_USERNAME, instead of using this parameter.
  * --report
      The output file, where the report will be written to.
    --retryWaittimeInMilliseconds
      Specify the time to wait between connection retries in milliseconds. The 
      value cannot be less than 1000 milliseconds.
      Default: 1000
    --sechubConfigfile
      The SecHub config file, containing additonal configurations for the 
      scan. 
  * --targetURL
      Specifies the target url to be scanned.
    --verbose
      Set this option to provide additional output while scanning.
      Default: false
    --zapApiKey
      Specifies the Zap host api key. You can also set the environment 
      variable ZAP_API_KEY, instead of using this parameter.
    --zapHost
      Specifies the Zap host address. You can also set the environment 
      variable ZAP_HOST, instead of using this parameter.
    --zapPort
      Specifies the Zap host port. You can also set the environment variable 
      ZAP_PORT, instead of using this parameter.
      Default: 0
----

==== Deactivate scan rules
The rules to deactivate can be specified via command line using `--deactivateRules` or via the environment variable `ZAP_DEACTIVATED_RULE_REFERENCES`.
A comma separated list must be used to deactivate rules by ID. The IDs can be found in the ID column https://www.zaproxy.org/docs/alerts/.
Please use comma separated values like:
----
$ java -jar sechub-pds-wrapperowaspzap-0.0.0.jar --deactivateRules 0,2
----
Another possibility to deactivate certain rules by ID is the environment variable `ZAP_DEACTIVATED_RULE_REFERENCES`.
----
ZAP_DEACTIVATED_RULE_REFERENCES="0,2"
----
But if the command line parameter `--deactivateRules` is set, the wrapper ignores this environment variable.
To set the environment variable the entry `zap.deactivation.rule.references=0,2`, can be used inside the executor config.

==== Groovy Script Login
To handle more complex authentication scenarios, the wrapper uses pre-defined groovy scripts.
The groovy authentication scripts have access to certain data from the wrapper application:

- An initialized selenium `FirefoxDriver` object that can be used directly
- An initialized selenium `WebDriverWait` object that can be used directly, implicitly using the firefox web driver
- An initialized selenium `JavascriptExecutor` object, which on default is the previously introduced `FirefoxDriver` 
- The `SecHubWebScanConfiguration` that was used to configure the scan
- The `TOTPGenerator` that can be used for two-factor-authentication
- The `user` configured for the authentication
- The `password` of the `user`
- The `loginUrl` necessary to authenticate.
- The `targetUrl`, which is the base URL specified for the scan.

The example script below shows how these bindings can be accessed and used. In the example script all bindings are listed, even the ones not used by the script.
The script can also be created completely without using anything of the pre-defined data.

The `TOTPGenerator` is an easy to use implementation of TOTP for two-factor-authentication if necessary. Using `totpGenerator.now()` returns the currently valid TOTP.
To make use of the script authentication the wrapper application expects a SecHub configuration json for the scan, which contains a template data definition and optionally a TOTP configuration.
See web scan example configurations for details.

WARNING: **The script should always ensure that the target URL is loaded in the browser at the end after the authentication because the caller needs to access the session data.**

The following example contains all available bindings, even if they are unused in the script below:

[source,groovy]
----
import static com.mercedesbenz.sechub.zapwrapper.scan.login.ZapScriptBindingKeys.*

import com.mercedesbenz.sechub.zapwrapper.util.TOTPGenerator
import com.mercedesbenz.sechub.zapwrapper.scan.login.MissingMandatoryBindingException

import org.openqa.selenium.firefox.FirefoxDriver
import org.openqa.selenium.support.ui.ExpectedConditions
import org.openqa.selenium.By
import org.openqa.selenium.support.ui.WebDriverWait
import org.openqa.selenium.JavascriptExecutor

import com.mercedesbenz.sechub.commons.model.SecHubWebScanConfiguration

// all available bindings
final FirefoxDriver firefox = binding.getVariable(FIREFOX_WEBDRIVER_KEY)
final WebDriverWait webdriverWait = binding.getVariable(FIREFOX_WEBDRIVER_WAIT_KEY)
final JavascriptExecutor javaScriptExecutor = binding.getVariable(JAVASCRIPTEXECUTOR_KEY)
final SecHubWebScanConfiguration sechubWebScanConfig = binding.getVariable(SECHUB_WEBSCAN_CONFIG_KEY)
final TOTPGenerator totpGenerator = binding.getVariable(TOTP_GENERATOR_KEY)

final String user = binding.getVariable(USER_KEY)
final String password = binding.getVariable(PASSWORD_KEY)
final String loginUrl = binding.getVariable(LOGIN_URL_KEY)
final String targetUrl = binding.getVariable(TARGET_URL_KEY)

// This is an example on how to use custom exceptions inside authentication scripts
// Exceptions of the type UserInfoScriptException are a channel back to the caller of the script,
// since they are caught by the ZAP wrapper executing this script.
// The message of the exception is sent in a SecHubMessage back to the client that pulls the results of the SecHub job.
if (totpGenerator == null) {
    throw new UserInfoScriptException("The authentication requires TOTP but no TOTP generator is available in bindings. Normally this means that no TOTP configuration is defined inside the SecHub configuration");
}

// example authentication script steps
firefox.get(loginUrl)

webdriverWait.until(ExpectedConditions.elementToBeClickable(By.cssSelector(".close-dialog"))).click()
webdriverWait.until(ExpectedConditions.presenceOfElementLocated(By.id("email"))).sendKeys(user)
webdriverWait.until(ExpectedConditions.presenceOfElementLocated(By.id("password"))).sendKeys(password)
webdriverWait.until(ExpectedConditions.elementToBeClickable(By.id("loginButton"))).click()
webdriverWait.until(ExpectedConditions.presenceOfElementLocated(By.id("otp"))).sendKeys(totpGenerator.now())
webdriverWait.until(ExpectedConditions.elementToBeClickable(By.id("submitOtp"))).click()
----

Commit message:

Support PAC file in wrapper and pds solution #3834
- add PAC file support from templates
- update test cases
- improve session handling by omitting not necessary settings
  and introduce default logout patterns to make logouts
  during scan less likely

sechub-wrapper-owasp-zap/README.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
== Zap Wrapper

Zap Wrapper CLI for PDS

=== Usage

The wrapper connection to the zaproxy can be configured by using the command line parameters below. Additionally it is possible to use environment variables like that:
All configurations in a way that the command line parameters always overwrite the environment variables.

----
ZAP_HOST=127.0.0.1
ZAP_PORT=8090
ZAP_API_KEY=change-me
----

To Specify an additional proxy you can set the following environment variables or use the corresponding command line options.

----
PROXY_HOST=127.0.0.1
PROXY_PORT=1234
----

To use the wrapper see the help below:

----
Usage: ZapWrapper [options]
  Options:
    --activeScan
      Set this option to enable Zap active scan.
      Default: false
    --ajaxSpider
      Set this option to enable Zap ajaxSpider.
      Default: false
    --ajaxSpiderBrowserId
      Set the browser id you want to use for the AjaxSpider module. Make sure 
      the browser you want to use is installed on the system running the scan. 
      Supported browsers are: [firefox-headless, firefox, chrome-headless, 
      chrome, htmlunit, safari].
      Default: firefox-headless
    --connectionCheck
      Set this option to enable an initial connection check performed by this 
      wrapper application.
      Default: false
    --deactivateRules
      Specify ZAP rule IDs you want to deactivate during the scan. If you 
      specify multiple rule IDs use comma separated values like: 123,456,789
      Default: []
    --groovyLoginScriptFile
      Groovy script file the ZAP wrapper uses for script based authentication 
      when templates are defined. You can also set the environment variable 
      ZAP_GROOVY_LOGIN_SCRIPT_FILE, instead of using this parameter.
    --help
      Shows help and provides information on how to use the wrapper.
    --jobUUID
      The Job-UUID, which will be used as internal identifier for the Zap scan 
      context. 
    --maxNumberOfConnectionRetries
      Maximum number of times the wrapper tries to reach each URL. Including 
      each URL constructed from the sechub includes.
      Default: 3
    --pacFilePath
      PAC file the ZAP wrapper uses for script based authentication for the 
      browsers profile, when templates are defined. You can also set the 
      environment variable ZAP_LOGIN_PAC_FILE_PATH, instead of using this 
      parameter. 
    --pdsEventFolder
      Folder where the ZAP wrapper listens for events of the PDS, like cancel 
      requests for the current job. You can also set the environment variable 
      PDS_JOB_EVENTS_FOLDER, instead of using this parameter.
    --pdsUserMessageFolder
      Folder where the user messages are written to. You can also set the 
      environment variable PDS_JOB_USER_MESSAGES_FOLDER, instead of using this 
      parameter. 
    --proxyHost
      Specify a proxy host. You can also set the environment variable 
      PROXY_HOST, instead of using this parameter.
    --proxyPassword
      Specify a proxy password. You can also set the environment variable 
      PROXY_PASSWORD, instead of using this parameter.
    --proxyPort
      Specify a proxy port. You can also set the environment variable 
      PROXY_PORT, instead of using this parameter.
      Default: 0
    --proxyRealm
      Specify a proxy realm. You can also set the environment variable 
      PROXY_REALM, instead of using this parameter.
    --proxyUsername
      Specify a proxy username. You can also set the environment variable 
      PROXY_USERNAME, instead of using this parameter.
  * --report
      The output file, where the report will be written to.
    --retryWaittimeInMilliseconds
      Specify the time to wait between connection retries in milliseconds. The 
      value cannot be less than 1000 milliseconds.
      Default: 1000
    --sechubConfigfile
      The SecHub config file, containing additional configurations for the 
      scan. 
  * --targetURL
      Specifies the target url to be scanned.
    --verbose
      Set this option to provide additional output while scanning.
      Default: false
    --zapApiKey
      Specifies the Zap host api key. You can also set the environment 
      variable ZAP_API_KEY, instead of using this parameter.
    --zapHost
      Specifies the Zap host address. You can also set the environment 
      variable ZAP_HOST, instead of using this parameter.
    --zapPort
      Specifies the Zap host port. You can also set the environment variable 
      ZAP_PORT, instead of using this parameter.
      Default: 0
----

==== Deactivate scan rules
The rules to deactivate can be specified via command line using `--deactivateRules` or via the environment variable `ZAP_DEACTIVATED_RULE_REFERENCES`.
A comma separated list must be used to deactivate rules by ID. The IDs can be found in the ID column https://www.zaproxy.org/docs/alerts/.
Please use comma separated values like:
----
$ java -jar sechub-pds-wrapperowaspzap-0.0.0.jar --deactivateRules 0,2
----
Another possibility to deactivate certain rules by ID is the environment variable `ZAP_DEACTIVATED_RULE_REFERENCES`.
----
ZAP_DEACTIVATED_RULE_REFERENCES="0,2"
----
But if the command line parameter `--deactivateRules` is set, the wrapper ignores this environment variable.
To set the environment variable the entry `zap.deactivation.rule.references=0,2`, can be used inside the executor config.

==== Groovy Script Login
To handle more complex authentication scenarios, the wrapper uses pre-defined groovy scripts.
The groovy authentication scripts have access to certain data from the wrapper application:

- An initialized selenium `FirefoxDriver` object that can be used directly
- An initialized selenium `WebDriverWait` object that can be used directly, implicitly using the firefox web driver
- An initialized selenium `JavascriptExecutor` object, which on default is the previously introduced `FirefoxDriver` 
- The `SecHubWebScanConfiguration` that was used to configure the scan
- The `TOTPGenerator` that can be used for two-factor-authentication
- The `user` configured for the authentication
- The `password` of the `user`
- The `loginUrl` necessary to authenticate.
- The `targetUrl`, which is the base URL specified for the scan.

The example script below shows how these bindings can be accessed and used. In the example script all bindings are listed, even the ones not used by the script.
The script can also be created completely without using anything of the pre-defined data.

The `TOTPGenerator` is an easy to use implementation of TOTP for two-factor-authentication if necessary. Using `totpGenerator.now()` returns the currently valid TOTP.
To make use of the script authentication the wrapper application expects a SecHub configuration json for the scan, which contains a template data definition and optionally a TOTP configuration.
See web scan example configurations for details.

WARNING: **The script should always ensure that the target URL is loaded in the browser at the end after the authentication because the caller needs to access the session data.**

The following example contains all available bindings, even if they are unused in the script below:

[source,groovy]
----
import static com.mercedesbenz.sechub.zapwrapper.scan.login.ZapScriptBindingKeys.*

import com.mercedesbenz.sechub.zapwrapper.util.TOTPGenerator
import com.mercedesbenz.sechub.zapwrapper.scan.login.MissingMandatoryBindingException

import org.openqa.selenium.firefox.FirefoxDriver
import org.openqa.selenium.support.ui.ExpectedConditions
import org.openqa.selenium.By
import org.openqa.selenium.support.ui.WebDriverWait
import org.openqa.selenium.JavascriptExecutor

import com.mercedesbenz.sechub.commons.model.SecHubWebScanConfiguration

// all available bindings
final FirefoxDriver firefox = binding.getVariable(FIREFOX_WEBDRIVER_KEY)
final WebDriverWait webdriverWait = binding.getVariable(FIREFOX_WEBDRIVER_WAIT_KEY)
final JavascriptExecutor javaScriptExecutor = binding.getVariable(JAVASCRIPTEXECUTOR_KEY)
final SecHubWebScanConfiguration sechubWebScanConfig = binding.getVariable(SECHUB_WEBSCAN_CONFIG_KEY)
final TOTPGenerator totpGenerator = binding.getVariable(TOTP_GENERATOR_KEY)

final String user = binding.getVariable(USER_KEY)
final String password = binding.getVariable(PASSWORD_KEY)
final String loginUrl = binding.getVariable(LOGIN_URL_KEY)
final String targetUrl = binding.getVariable(TARGET_URL_KEY)

// This is an example on how to use custom exceptions inside authentication scripts
// Exceptions of the type UserInfoScriptException are a channel back to the caller of the script,
// since they are caught by the ZAP wrapper executing this script.
// The message of the exception is sent in a SecHubMessage back to the client that pulls the results of the SecHub job.
if (totpGenerator == null) {
    throw new UserInfoScriptException("The authentication requires TOTP but no TOTP generator is available in bindings. Normally this means that no TOTP configuration is defined inside the SecHub configuration");
}

// example authentication script steps
firefox.get(loginUrl)

webdriverWait.until(ExpectedConditions.elementToBeClickable(By.cssSelector(".close-dialog"))).click()
webdriverWait.until(ExpectedConditions.presenceOfElementLocated(By.id("email"))).sendKeys(user)
webdriverWait.until(ExpectedConditions.presenceOfElementLocated(By.id("password"))).sendKeys(password)
webdriverWait.until(ExpectedConditions.elementToBeClickable(By.id("loginButton"))).click()
webdriverWait.until(ExpectedConditions.presenceOfElementLocated(By.id("otp"))).sendKeys(totpGenerator.now())
webdriverWait.until(ExpectedConditions.elementToBeClickable(By.id("submitOtp"))).click()
----
