sechub-wrapper-secretvalidation/README.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
== Secret valdiation Wrapper

This wrapper is a Spring Boot application, that is supposed to run on PDS solutions performing secret scans.
After the secret scanning tool is done it will try to validate secrets found and enhance the SARIF report with a custom PropertyBag for each finding location.
It will add a custom severity with the key `secretscan.sereco.severity` with
one of the following values `["info", "unclassified", "low", "medium", "high", "critical"]` to a SARIF PropertyBag which contains a generic map for custom values.
This values can then be used by the `sechub-sereco` module to improve the severity categorization of a finding. We add this custom severities with a `PropertyBag` because the SARIF default called `Level` does not support `CRITICAL`.

In case the secret was valid,the key `secretscan.validated.by.url` will be added to the PropertyBag as well with the value containing the URL the secret was valid for.

=== Usage

==== Start wrapper
The wrapper application is an executable jar and needs no command line arguments.
It can automatically use all 
https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/sechub-product-delegation-server.html#launcher-scripts[standard PDS environment variables] 
and following special mandatory environment variable:

----
SECRET_VALIDATOR_CONFIGFILE
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
The file, which must be configured by `SECRET_VALIDATOR_CONFIGFILE`, contains the configuration for each secret type, which basically tells the wrapper application how to validate secrets of a certain type.
For each product a custom file is necessary, where some kind of finding identifier should be used, like the SARIF `ruleId` to identify each configuration.
From the https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/sechub-product-delegation-server.html#launcher-scripts[standard PDS environment variables]
only the `PDS_JOB_RESULT_FILE` is mandatory because without a valid SARIF report from a secret scanning tool no validations can be done.
====

===== Configuration file example
```json
{
  "validatorConfigList" : [ { <1>
    "ruleId" : "sarif-result-rule-id", <2>
    "categorization" : { <3>
      "defaultSeverity" : "high",
      "validationFailedSeverity" : "medium",
      "validationSuccessSeverity" : "critical"
    },
    "requests" : [ { <4>
      "proxyRequired" : true,
      "verifyCertificate": false,
      "url" : "https://api.example.com",
      "headers" : [ {
        "name" : "Authorization",
        "valuePrefix" : "Bearer"
      } ],
      "expectedResponse" : { <5>
        "httpStatus" : 200,
        "contains" : {
          "allOf" : [ "is", "there" ],
          "oneOf" : [ "success", "authorized" ]
        }
      }
    } ]
  } ]
}
```
<1> Define a list of configuration entries. One entry represents a type of secret identified by a dedicated rule id.
<2> The `ruleId` identifies this configuration so the requests defined in the later section are performed for each finding of this type.
<3> The `categorization` configuration. If empty no categorization will be performed, otherwise:
- The `defaultSeverity` will be applied if there are no requests defined for this type of secret.
- The `validationFailedSeverity` will be applied if all validation requests failed for this secret.
- The `validationSuccessSeverity` will be applied if the secret was successfully validated with one of the requests defined.
<4> The `requests` array defines all known requests to validate a secret of this certain type.
This is an array because for some secrets it might be necessary to validate against multiple servers e.g. when a company uses multiple AWS instances.
It might be necessary to perform validation requests to all possible AWS instances to check if a secret is valid for any of them:
- `proxyRequired` specifies if the URL can only be accessed using a proxy server.
- `verifyCertificate` specifies if the certificate for this URL shall be verified or ignored. The default value is `true`, meaning the certificate will be verified and certificate errors are not ignored.
- `url` specifies the URL the request will be performed to.
- `headers` specifies the header `name` and `valuePrefix` if necessary for the secret found.
It is an array because it could be useful in the future. Currently the header is used for the secret because it is assumed to be a token send via HTTP header.
<5> The `expectedResponse` section contains information expected on a request with a valid secret,
like a specific `httpStatus` code or the response body should contain `allOf` or `oneOf` certain strings.



There exists also some optional variables:

----
SECRET_VALIDATOR_CONNECTIONRETRIES
---- 

[TIP]
====
The property `secret.validator.connection-retries`or the corresponding environment variable `SECRET_VALIDATOR_CONNECTIONRETRIES` can be set to specify the number of retries for each of the request, to be more resistant to network issues.
The default value is `3` meaning in the worst case `4` requests will be performed on connection issues.
This can be useful, in certain situations or setups.
====

===== Proxy configuration
Inside the configuration file each request has to configure if a proxy server is required to access this specific URL or not.
The wrapper is implemented to use the default proxy of the system properties. To configure a proxy, launch the application with the following arguments.
For each request it will then be decided if the proxy is needed or not according to the configuration file provided:

----
java -Dhttp.proxyHost=localhost -Dhttp.proxyPort=1234 -Dhttps.proxyHost=localhost -Dhttps.proxyPort=1234 -jar secret-validation-wrapper.jar
----

==== Testing the wrapper
For testing purposes there is another implementation present which is only available and used if the wrapper is started with the `integrationtest` profile:
----
java -Dspring.profiles.active=integrationtest -jar secret-validation-wrapper.jar
----
If the `integrationtest` profile is used the application will flag all findings in the SARIF report as valid, that has a none empty list of requests configured.
In case no requests are configured the finding will be flagged as invalid.

Commit message:

Add configurable timeout and improve retry handling #3372 #3376

sechub-wrapper-secretvalidation/README.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
== Secret valdiation Wrapper

This wrapper is a Spring Boot application, that is supposed to run on PDS solutions performing secret scans.
After the secret scanning tool is done it will try to validate secrets found and enhance the SARIF report with a custom PropertyBag for each finding location.
It will add a custom severity with the key `secretscan.sereco.severity` with
one of the following values `["info", "unclassified", "low", "medium", "high", "critical"]` to a SARIF PropertyBag which contains a generic map for custom values.
This values can then be used by the `sechub-sereco` module to improve the severity categorization of a finding. We add this custom severities with a `PropertyBag` because the SARIF default called `Level` does not support `CRITICAL`.

In case the secret was valid,the key `secretscan.validated.by.url` will be added to the PropertyBag as well with the value containing the URL the secret was valid for.

=== Usage

==== Start wrapper
The wrapper application is an executable jar and needs no command line arguments.
It can automatically use all 
https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/sechub-product-delegation-server.html#launcher-scripts[standard PDS environment variables] 
and following special mandatory environment variable:

----
SECRET_VALIDATOR_CONFIGFILE
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
The file, which must be configured by `SECRET_VALIDATOR_CONFIGFILE`, contains the configuration for each secret type, which basically tells the wrapper application how to validate secrets of a certain type.
For each product a custom file is necessary, where some kind of finding identifier should be used, like the SARIF `ruleId` to identify each configuration.
From the https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/sechub-product-delegation-server.html#launcher-scripts[standard PDS environment variables]
only the `PDS_JOB_RESULT_FILE` is mandatory because without a valid SARIF report from a secret scanning tool no validations can be done.
====

===== Configuration file example
```json
{
  "validatorConfigList" : [ { <1>
    "ruleId" : "sarif-result-rule-id", <2>
    "categorization" : { <3>
      "defaultSeverity" : "high",
      "validationFailedSeverity" : "medium",
      "validationSuccessSeverity" : "critical"
    },
    "requests" : [ { <4>
      "proxyRequired" : true,
      "verifyCertificate": false,
      "url" : "https://api.example.com",
      "headers" : [ {
        "name" : "Authorization",
        "valuePrefix" : "Bearer"
      } ],
      "expectedResponse" : { <5>
        "httpStatus" : 200,
        "contains" : {
          "allOf" : [ "is", "there" ],
          "oneOf" : [ "success", "authorized" ]
        }
      }
    } ]
  } ]
}
```
<1> Define a list of configuration entries. One entry represents a type of secret identified by a dedicated rule id.
<2> The `ruleId` identifies this configuration so the requests defined in the later section are performed for each finding of this type.
<3> The `categorization` configuration. If empty no categorization will be performed, otherwise:
- The `defaultSeverity` will be applied if there are no requests defined for this type of secret.
- The `validationFailedSeverity` will be applied if all validation requests failed for this secret.
- The `validationSuccessSeverity` will be applied if the secret was successfully validated with one of the requests defined.
<4> The `requests` array defines all known requests to validate a secret of this certain type.
This is an array because for some secrets it might be necessary to validate against multiple servers e.g. when a company uses multiple AWS instances.
It might be necessary to perform validation requests to all possible AWS instances to check if a secret is valid for any of them:
- `proxyRequired` specifies if the URL can only be accessed using a proxy server.
- `verifyCertificate` specifies if the certificate for this URL shall be verified or ignored. The default value is `true`, meaning the certificate will be verified and certificate errors are not ignored.
- `url` specifies the URL the request will be performed to.
- `headers` specifies the header `name` and `valuePrefix` if necessary for the secret found.
It is an array because it could be useful in the future. Currently the header is used for the secret because it is assumed to be a token send via HTTP header.
<5> The `expectedResponse` section contains information expected on a request with a valid secret,
like a specific `httpStatus` code or the response body should contain `allOf` or `oneOf` certain strings.



There exists also some optional variables:

----
SECRET_VALIDATOR_MAXIMUMRETRIES
SECRET_VALIDATOR_TIMEOUTSECONDS
---- 

[TIP]
====
The property `secret.validator.maximum-retries` or the corresponding environment variable `SECRET_VALIDATOR_MAXIMUMRETRIES` can be used to specify the `number of retries` for each of the request, to be more resistant to network issues.
The default value is `3` meaning in the worst case `4` requests will be performed on connection issues.

The property `secret.validator.timeout-seconds` or the corresponding environment variable `SECRET_VALIDATOR_TIMEOUTSECONDS` can be used to specify the number of `seconds` for each of the request before returning because of a timeout.
The default value is `5` seconds. This means on default after maximum `5` seconds the next request will be performed.

This can be useful, in certain situations or setups.
====

===== Default spring boot configuration
The defaults can be found inside the <<src/main/resources/application.properties, application.properties>> file:
[source,properties]
----
include::src/main/resources/application.properties[]
----

===== Proxy configuration
Inside the configuration file each request has to configure if a proxy server is required to access this specific URL or not.
The wrapper is implemented to use the default proxy of the system properties. To configure a proxy, launch the application with the following arguments.
For each request it will then be decided if the proxy is needed or not according to the configuration file provided:

----
java -Dhttp.proxyHost=localhost -Dhttp.proxyPort=1234 -Dhttps.proxyHost=localhost -Dhttps.proxyPort=1234 -jar secret-validation-wrapper.jar
----

==== Testing the wrapper
For testing purposes there is another implementation present which is only available and used if the wrapper is started with the `integrationtest` profile:
----
java -Dspring.profiles.active=integrationtest -jar secret-validation-wrapper.jar
----
If the `integrationtest` profile is used the application will flag all findings in the SARIF report as valid, that has a none empty list of requests configured.
In case no requests are configured the finding will be flagged as invalid.
