sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/pds_options.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[section-start-configuration]]
==== Profiles / running the {sechub} {pds}

===== Production mode
You can start a PDS in production profile which requires a running PostgreSQL
database. Please refer also to <<section-postgresql-configuration,PostgreSQL configuration>> for
database setup which must be done before.

Example:
----
java -jar Dspring.profiles.active=pds_prod sechub-pds-0.25.0.jar
----

NOTE: There are some more mandatory parameters, please refer to <<section-general-configuration,general configuration>>

===== Integration test mode
You can start a PDS in integration test mode if you just want to
test


Example:
----
java -jar -Dspring.profiles.active=pds_integrationtest,pds_h2 sechub-pds-0.25.0.jar
----


===== Logging
====== Default output
{pds} uses per default logging to `stdout`. In case you are running on Kubernetes or similar platforms you can use
`fluentd` to gather the log output.

====== Logstash support
When you want to use `logstash` you just have to set the environment variable
`LOGGING_TYPE` to `LOGSTASH_JSON` before server starts.


[[section-db-configuration]]
==== Database configuration

[[section-postgresql-configuration]]
===== PostgreSQL

First of all install a PostgreSQL database.

Then define following environment entries before you start the server
with active postgres profile:

- POSTGRES_DB_URL
- POSTGRES_DB_USERNAME
- POSTGRES_DB_PASSWORD

Examples:
----
POSTGRES_DB_URL=jdbc:postgresql://127.0.0.1:49153/pds-gosec
POSTGRES_DB_USERNAME=pds-gosec-pg-admin
POSTGRES_DB_PASSWORD=a-very-strong-password...
----

[[section-general-configuration]]
==== General configuration
{pds} can be configured by keys on server startup.
Using the spring `@Value` annotation we are able to
use these keys as Java system properties but also as environment entries.

E.g. a key like `pds.admin.apitoken` can be set with

----
java ... -Dpds.admin.apitoken={noop}12345exampleToken
----

or with an environment entry `PDS_ADMIN_APITOKEN` which
is e.g. more suitable for a `kubernetes` cluster deployment.

[TIP]
====
When you have secret information you can define those information as a template by using environment
variables from your {sechub} installation.

An example:

```
pds.admin.apitoken=env:PDS_GOSEC_SOLUTION_APITOKEN
```

If your SecHub process runs in an environment with variable `PDS_GOSEC_SOLUTION_APITOKEN` set
to 'very-secret-apitoken1234' _(e.g. by using secrets inside K8s)_, the authentication sent to
{pds} by {sechub} will use
```
pds.admin.apitoken=very-secret-apitoken1234
```
====

ifdef::showhintaboutgenerated[]
include::./../shared/pds_hint_generated_systemproperties.adoc[]
endif::[]

[[link-gen-pds-systemproperties]]
include::./../gen/gen_pds_systemproperties.adoc[]


include::pds_solution_configurations.adoc[]

Commit message:

Forcing env variables for sensitive data #3223
- documentation build also changed
- normal unit tests do disable the assertion
- added unit tests
- added spring boot test
- changed upload size configuration class from service to component

sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/pds_options.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[section-start-configuration]]
==== Profiles / running the {sechub} {pds}

===== Production mode
You can start a PDS in production profile which requires a running PostgreSQL
database. Please refer also to <<section-postgresql-configuration,PostgreSQL configuration>> for
database setup which must be done before.

Example:
----
java -jar Dspring.profiles.active=pds_prod sechub-pds-0.25.0.jar
----

NOTE: There are some more mandatory parameters, please refer to <<section-general-configuration,general configuration>>

===== Integration test mode
You can start a PDS in integration test mode if you just want to
test


Example:
----
java -jar -Dspring.profiles.active=pds_integrationtest,pds_h2 sechub-pds-0.25.0.jar
----


===== Logging
====== Default output
{pds} uses per default logging to `stdout`. In case you are running on Kubernetes or similar platforms you can use
`fluentd` to gather the log output.

====== Logstash support
When you want to use `logstash` you just have to set the environment variable
`LOGGING_TYPE` to `LOGSTASH_JSON` before server starts.


[[section-db-configuration]]
==== Database configuration

[[section-postgresql-configuration]]
===== PostgreSQL

First of all install a PostgreSQL database.

Then define following environment entries before you start the server
with active postgres profile:

- POSTGRES_DB_URL
- POSTGRES_DB_USERNAME
- POSTGRES_DB_PASSWORD

Examples:
----
POSTGRES_DB_URL=jdbc:postgresql://127.0.0.1:49153/pds-gosec
POSTGRES_DB_USERNAME=pds-gosec-pg-admin
POSTGRES_DB_PASSWORD=a-very-strong-password...
----

[[section-general-configuration]]
==== General configuration
{pds} can be configured by keys on server startup.
With spring it is is possible to define the keys as Java system properties but also as
environment entries.

E.g. a key like `pds.server.debug` can be set with `-Dpds.server.debug=true`

or with an environment entry `PDS_SERVER_DEBUG` which
is e.g. more suitable for a `kubernetes` cluster deployment.

ifdef::showhintaboutgenerated[]
include::./../shared/pds_hint_generated_systemproperties.adoc[]
endif::[]


[WARNING]
====
Even when it is possible to configure `PDS` with system properties or with environment variables
there are some configuration options which insists to be defined as environment variable only (E.g. because they
contain sensitive information which shall not appear inside any process inspection logs).

If you define those parts not as environment variables, `PDS` will not start but show an error message instead.
Please look for more information at the following tables.
====

[[link-gen-pds-systemproperties]]
include::./../gen/gen_pds_systemproperties.adoc[]


include::pds_solution_configurations.adoc[]
