sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/springboot_profiles.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[section-sechub-spring-profiles]]
==== SecHub Spring Profiles
`{sechub}` provides multiple `Spring` profiles

===== Server

====== Overview
plantuml::diagrams/gen/gen_springprofiles.puml[format=svg, title="Spring profiles and their explicit/implicit included parts"]

====== PROD
As name offers, this profile is designed for production.

[WARNING]
====
For production the profile `admin_access` is *NOT* included automatically for security reasons.
You should provide an additional server instance where only administrators have network access - only activate
the profile on this machine. So you prevent illegal administrative access attempts.

====

plantuml::diagrams/gen/gen_springprofiles-prod.puml[format=svg, title="Spring profile prod and its explicit/implicit included parts"]

====== DEV
plantuml::diagrams/gen/gen_springprofiles-dev.puml[format=svg, title="Spring profile dev and its explicit/implicit included parts"]

For development this profile must be combinated with others to get server
starting - but its extreme flexible and has only a dependency to localserver



====== Integration-Test
plantuml::diagrams/gen/gen_springprofiles-integrationtest.puml[format=svg, title="Spring profile integrationtest and its explicit/implicit included parts"]
*SecHub itself*

We use `integrationtest` profile for server integration tests. You must add some
additional profiles. We use `h2` and `mocked_products` for unit testing
of sechub server itself.

*Test your security tool suite installation*

You can use this profile also for testing your security product suite in
combination with sechub server - e.g. when you have done an update at your
product suite and you are not sure if its compatible or the products have bugs.

But _(at least currently)_ you have to write your own tests then.
Following could be done:

* Write some simple bash scripts which are using {sechub} client
* Use `sechub-integrationtest` project as dependency and
   write some junit tests using TestAPI.

if you want to test your installed environment is working you can also use
`real_products`.


[NOTE]
====
We got dedicated profile constants.

For adapters the constants can be found at `AdapterProfiles`, for all other in `Profiles` (shared kernel).
====

Commit message:

Keycloak test container (#4192)
---------

Co-authored-by: Albert Tregnaghi <albert.tregnaghi@mercedes-benz.com>

sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/springboot_profiles.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[section-sechub-spring-profiles]]
==== SecHub Spring Profiles
`{sechub}` provides multiple `Spring` profiles

===== Server

====== Overview
plantuml::diagrams/gen/gen_springprofiles.puml[format=svg, title="Spring profiles and their explicit/implicit included parts"]

====== PROD
As name offers, this profile is designed for production.

[WARNING]
====
For production the profile `admin_access` is *NOT* included automatically for security reasons.
You should provide an additional server instance where only administrators have network access - only activate
the profile on this machine. So you prevent illegal administrative access attempts.

====

plantuml::diagrams/gen/gen_springprofiles-prod.puml[format=svg, title="Spring profile prod and its explicit/implicit included parts"]

====== DEV
plantuml::diagrams/gen/gen_springprofiles-dev.puml[format=svg, title="Spring profile dev and its explicit/implicit included parts"]

For development this profile must be combinated with others to get server
starting - but its extreme flexible and has only a dependency to localserver



====== Integration-Test
plantuml::diagrams/gen/gen_springprofiles-integrationtest.puml[format=svg, title="Spring profile integrationtest and its explicit/implicit included parts"]
*SecHub itself*

We use `integrationtest` profile for server integration tests. You must add some
additional profiles. We use `h2` and `mocked_products` for unit testing
of sechub server itself. +

The profile `local_keycloak` can be used to connect to a local keycloak server.
Default server can be started with `./gradlew runLocalTestKeycloakStarter` command which will also generated a ready-to-use property file.

*Test your security tool suite installation*

You can use this profile also for testing your security product suite in
combination with sechub server - e.g. when you have done an update at your
product suite and you are not sure if its compatible or the products have bugs.

But _(at least currently)_ you have to write your own tests then.
Following could be done:

* Write some simple bash scripts which are using {sechub} client
* Use `sechub-integrationtest` project as dependency and
   write some junit tests using TestAPI.

if you want to test your installed environment is working you can also use
`real_products`.


[NOTE]
====
We got dedicated profile constants.

For adapters the constants can be found at `AdapterProfiles`, for all other in `Profiles` (shared kernel).
====
