sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/springboot_security.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[springboot-security]]
=== Spring Boot Security

SecHub uses Spring Boot Security to secure the application. Spring Security can be split into two modes:

* `Resource Server`
* `Login`

==== Resource Server

In `Resource Server` mode you tell Spring to authenticate incoming requests using existing credentials and tokens. SecHub
allows for `Basic Authentication` or `OAuth2`.

In SecHub we call anything that has to do with basic authentication the `Classic` mode. The classic mode is the default
authentication mode for SecHub. In classic mode the server validates the credentials itself using the database.

NOTE: SecHub requires you to activate at least `Classic` mode or `OAuth2`. If you don't have any requirements for OAuth2
you can simply use the classic mode.

OAuth2 can be split further into two modes: `JWT` and `Opaque Token`.
With JWT mode enabled the server checks the token itself using signature validation.

Below is an example configuration with `Classic` mode and `OAuth2` in `JWT` mode:

[source,yaml]
----
sechub:
  security:
    server:
      modes:
        - oauth2
        - classic
      oauth2:
        mode: jwt
        jwt:
          jwk-set-uri: <jwk-set-uri-of-your-idp>
----

In `Opaque Token` mode the server forwards the token to an introspection endpoint for every request.

NOTE:  `Opaque Token` mode increases the load on the IDP server hence caching is very important. Adjust the caching settings to your
IDPs needs. If you don't have high security requirements you can simply use `JWT` mode.

Below is an example configuration with `Classic` mode and `OAuth2` in `Opaque Token` mode:

[source,yaml]
----
sechub:
  security:
    server:
      modes:
        - oauth2
        - classic
      oauth2:
        mode: opaque-token
        opaque-token:
          introspection-uri: <introspection-uri-of-your-idp>
          client-id: <client-id>
          client-secret: <client-secret>
----


==== Login

SecHub can also be configured to act as a login provider. With login enabled SecHub will serve a login mask under the
configured path. After successful authentication the user will be redirected to the configured redirect uri. The redirect
will also include the authentication details in the `Cookies`. With this any browser based client will be automatically
authenticated in subsequent requests unless the cookies are cleared or the authentication expires.

Like with the `Resource Server` mode you can choose between `Classic` and `OAuth2`.

NOTE: The authentication credentials are securely encrypted in the cookies. For that `AES 256 Encryption` is used. You
have to configure a secret key for the encryption.

Below is a full configuration example with `Login` enabled in `Classic` and `OAuth2` mode:

[source,yaml]
----
sechub:
  security:
    server:
      modes:
        - oauth2
        - classic
      oauth2:
        mode: jwt
        jwt:
          jwk-set-uri: <jwk-set-uri-of-your-idp>
    login:
      enabled: true
      # This is the path where the login mask will be served on the SecHub server
      # You can choose any other path as long as it does not conflict with existing paths
      login-page: /login
      # Here you can configure the target application where the user will be redirected after successful login
      redirect-uri: <your-target-application>
      modes:
        - oauth2
        - classic
      oauth2:
        client-id: <client-id>
        client-secret: <client-secret>
        provider: <provider> # e.g. keycloak
        # This is the callback uri where the IDP will redirect the user after successful login
        # For most IDPs this URI has to be configured inside the IDP client
        redirect-uri: https://<sechub-server-host>/login/oauth2/code/<provider>
        issuer-uri: <issuer-uri>
        authorization-uri: <authorization-uri>
        token-uri: <token-uri>
        user-info-uri: <user-info-uri>
        jwk-set-uri: <jwk-set-uri>
    encryption:
      secret-key: <aes-256-compatible-secret-key>
----

Commit message:

added tech doc for caching and default expires in for opaque tokens

sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/springboot_security.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[springboot-security]]
=== Spring Boot Security

SecHub uses Spring Boot Security to secure the application. Spring Security can be split into two modes:

* `Resource Server`
* `Login`

==== Resource Server

In `Resource Server` mode you tell Spring to authenticate incoming requests using existing credentials and tokens. SecHub
allows for `Basic Authentication` or `OAuth2`.

In SecHub we call anything that has to do with basic authentication the `Classic` mode. The classic mode is the default
authentication mode for SecHub. In classic mode the server validates the credentials itself using the database.

NOTE: SecHub requires you to activate at least `Classic` mode or `OAuth2`. If you don't have any requirements for OAuth2
you can simply use the classic mode.

OAuth2 can be split further into two modes: `JWT` and `Opaque Token`.
With JWT mode enabled the server checks the token itself using signature validation.

Below is an example configuration with `Classic` mode and `OAuth2` in `JWT` mode:

[source,yaml]
----
sechub:
  security:
    server:
      modes:
        - oauth2
        - classic
      oauth2:
        mode: jwt
        jwt:
          jwk-set-uri: <jwk-set-uri-of-your-idp>
----

In `Opaque Token` mode the server forwards the token to an introspection endpoint for every request.

NOTE:  `Opaque Token` mode increases the load on the IDP server hence caching is very important. Adjust the caching settings to your
IDPs needs. If you don't have high security requirements you can simply use `JWT` mode.

Below is an example configuration with Classic mode and OAuth2 in `Opaque Token` mode:

[source,yaml]
----
sechub:
  security:
    server:
      modes:
        - oauth2
      oauth2:
        mode: opaque-token
        opaque-token:
          introspection-uri: <introspection-uri-of-your-idp>
          client-id: <client-id>
          client-secret: <client-secret>
          default-token-expires-in: 60m # defaults to 1d
          max-cache-duration: 1d
----

- `default-token-expires-in`: The default expiration time for tokens. This is used when the IDP does not provide an expiration time.
- `max-cache-duration`: The maximum time a token is cached on SecHub side. After this time, the token is introspected again.

==== Login

SecHub can also be configured to act as a login provider. With login enabled SecHub will serve a login mask under the
configured path. After successful authentication the user will be redirected to the configured redirect uri. The redirect
will also include the authentication details in the `Cookies`. With this any browser based client will be automatically
authenticated in subsequent requests unless the cookies are cleared or the authentication expires.

Like with the `Resource Server` mode you can choose between `Classic` and `OAuth2`.

NOTE: The authentication credentials are securely encrypted in the cookies. For that `AES 256 Encryption` is used. You
have to configure a secret key for the encryption.

Below is a full configuration example with `Login` enabled in `Classic` and `OAuth2` mode:

[source,yaml]
----
sechub:
  security:
    server:
      modes:
        - oauth2
        - classic
      oauth2:
        mode: jwt
        jwt:
          jwk-set-uri: <jwk-set-uri-of-your-idp>
    login:
      enabled: true
      # This is the path where the login mask will be served on the SecHub server
      # You can choose any other path as long as it does not conflict with existing paths
      login-page: /login
      # Here you can configure the target application where the user will be redirected after successful login
      redirect-uri: <your-target-application>
      modes:
        - oauth2
        - classic
      oauth2:
        client-id: <client-id>
        client-secret: <client-secret>
        provider: <provider> # e.g. keycloak
        # This is the callback uri where the IDP will redirect the user after successful login
        # For most IDPs this URI has to be configured inside the IDP client
        redirect-uri: https://<sechub-server-host>/login/oauth2/code/<provider>
        issuer-uri: <issuer-uri>
        authorization-uri: <authorization-uri>
        token-uri: <token-uri>
        user-info-uri: <user-info-uri>
        jwk-set-uri: <jwk-set-uri>
    encryption:
      secret-key: <aes-256-compatible-secret-key>
----
