sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/concepts/concept_pds.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
=== Product delegation server

==== General
There are many open source clients available having no server component inside so lacking:

- REST access
- queuing
- status requests
- scalable
- … more

So when we want to adapt them in {sechub} style _(the product does the work and we ask for result)_ we
need to provide a `ProductDelegationServer` (in short form `PDS`).

`PDS` is

- a spring boot application which uses a network DB for providing cluster possibility
- a complete standalone application without runtime dependencies to {sechub} server (or its shared kernel)
- provides REST access
- a very simple priviledge model with just two users (`tech user` + `admin user`),
  basic auth via `TLS`, credentials are simply defined by environment entries on startup
- provides jobs, queing, monitoring etc.
- can execute single files (e.g. a bash script), where job parameters are
  available as environment variables at runtime
- a standard way to integrate any product into {sechub} in a scalable and easy way

==== Handling of resources
- PDS server provides `auto unzipping` of uploaded resources when configured  - see <<section-pds-server-config-file,PDS server configuration file>>
- When a PDS job fails or is done the resources inside job workspace location are *automatically removed*

==== Big picture
plantuml::diagrams/diagram_concept_product_delgation_server_bigpicture.puml[]


[[pds-storage-and-sharing]]
==== Storage and sharing

{pds} needs - like {sechub} - the possiblity to store job data in a central storage location when
operating inside a cluster _(it's not clear which cluster member uploads job data and which one does execute
the job and need the data at exectuion time)._

{pds} does use the already existing `sechub-storage-*` libraries which provide storage mechanism for S3 and
for shared volumes.

[TIP]
====
The next examples explain the different situations appearing for a PDS cluster executing product "XYZ",
but of course this applies to multiple clusters for different products as well
====

[NOTE]
====
For non clustered environment "shared volumes" can also be local file system paths like
`/opt/storage/pds/XYZ`
====

[WARNING]
====
When talking about a NFS or a shared volume here, this is always meant to be a file system path.
It's important to mount a NFS at a local file path for the PDS server when using a shared volume.
URLs are NOT supported - only file paths. So you must mount your network file storage to a local file location!

For example: a base path for a shared volume could look like: `/media/mounted-storage/`
====


===== Shared S3 storage

In the <<section-pds-s3-storage-example-shared-s3-buckets,next example>> PDS and SecHub are using the same S3 bucket to store files uploaded by the user.

We have two different scenarios here:

* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is `true` +
  In this case the way is exactly as shown in next picture: +
  - The user uploads job data for a {sechub} job and it is stored at shared S3 bucket _(blue lines)_.
  - When {sechub} job is starting it will create a {pds} job but does not upload any additional data.
  - When PDS job is starting the PDS server will fetch workspace files from existing {sechub} job data _(red lines)_.
  - The storage path location is for {pds} and {sechub}  `${sharedS3Bucket}/jobstorage/${secHubJobUUID}/`


[[section-pds-s3-storage-example-shared-s3-buckets]]
plantuml::diagrams/diagram_concept_pds_storage_example_shared_s3_bucket.puml[]

* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is NOT `true` +
  In this case the way is NOT like in picture before, but more like in <<pds-storage-different-s3,Different S3 storages>>.
  Read there for more details - it's the same - except there are not 2 different S3 buckets but only one.


[[pds-storage-different-s3]]
===== Different S3 storages
In the <<section-pds-s3-storage-example-diff-s3-buckets,next example>> PDS and SecHub are using different S3 buckets as storage.

We have two different scenarios here:

* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is NOT `true` +
  In this case the way is exactly as shown in next picture: +
  - The user uploads job data for a {sechub} job and it is stored at shared S3 bucket _(blue lines)_.
  - The storage path location for {sechub} is `${sechubS3Bucket}/jobstorage/${secHubJobUUID}/`
  - When {sechub} job is starting it will create and initialize a {pds} job by uploading all existing job data by {pds} rest API.
    This will store job data at {pds} storage. _(green lines)_.
  - When PDS job is starting, the  PDS server will fetch workspace files from its {pds} job data _(red lines)_.
  - The storage path location for {pds} is `${pdsS3Bucket}/pds/${pdsProductIdentifier}/${pdsJobUUID}/`


[[section-pds-s3-storage-example-diff-s3-buckets]]
plantuml::diagrams/diagram_concept_pds_storage_example_different_s3_buckets.puml[]


* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is `true`

WARNING: This will NOT WORK! The job storage will not be found and an error will be thrown at job execution time.

===== Same shared volume (NFS)
In the <<section-pds-s3-storage-example-shared-nfs,next example>> PDS server and SecHub are using same shared volume as storage.

We have two different scenarios here:

* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is `true` +
  In this case the way is exactly as shown in next picture: +
  - The user uploads job data for a {sechub} job and it is stored at shared volume _(blue lines)_.
  - When {sechub} job is starting it will create a {pds} job but does not upload any additional data.
  - When PDS job is starting the PDS server will fetch workspace files from existing {sechub} job data _(red lines)_.
  - The storage path location is for {pds} and {sechub}  `${sharedVolumeBasePath}/jobstorage/${secHubJobUUID}/`

[[section-pds-s3-storage-example-shared-nfs]]
plantuml::diagrams/diagram_concept_pds_storage_example_shared_nfs.puml[]

* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is NOT `true` +
  In this case the way is NOT like in picture before, but more like in <<pds-storage-different-sharedvolume,Different shared volumes>>.
  Read there for more details - it's the same - except there are not 2 different NFS but only one.


[[pds-storage-different-sharedvolume]]
===== Different shared volumes (NFS)
In the <<section-pds-s3-storage-example-diff-nfs,next example>> PDS and SecHub are using different shared volumes as storage.

We have two different scenarios here:

* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is NOT `true` +
  In this case the way is exactly as shown in next picture: +
  - The user uploads job data for a {sechub} job and it is stored at {sechub} shared volume _(blue lines)_.
  - The storage path location for {sechub} is `${sechubSharedVolumeBasePath}/jobstorage/${secHubJobUUID}/`
  - When {sechub} job is starting it will create and initialize a {pds} job by uploading all existing job data by {pds} rest API.
    This will store job data at {pds} storage. _(green lines)_.
  - When PDS job is starting, the  PDS server will fetch workspace files from its {pds} job data _(red lines)_.
  - The storage path location for {pds} is `${pdsSharedVolumeBasePath}/pds/${pdsProductIdentifier}/${pdsJobUUID}/`

[[section-pds-s3-storage-example-diff-nfs]]
plantuml::diagrams/diagram_concept_pds_storage_example_different_nfs.puml[]


* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is `true`

WARNING: This will NOT WORK! The job storage will not be found and an error will be thrown at job execution time.

[[pds-storage-mixing-sharedvolume-and-s3]]
===== Mixing S3 and shared volume (NFS)
This <<section-pds-s3-storage-example-s3-nfs-mixed,example>> is only mentioned for the sake of completeness: It is the same as before described for different S3 and different shared volumes:
`pds.config.use.sechub.storage` cannot be used in this case.

When not reusing {sechub} storage, this scenario does work also well. In the next picture, {sechub} itself would use a S3 storage and he
PDS instances for product `XYZ` would use a NFS to store job data. But of course it could be also the other way.

[[section-pds-s3-storage-example-s3-nfs-mixed]]
plantuml::diagrams/diagram_concept_pds_storage_example_s3_and_nfs_mixed.puml[]

[[pds-process-handling]]
==== Process execution
PDS instances are executing so called `caller scripts` by spanning a new process. At this time
dedicated environment variables are automatically injected and available inside the scripts.

[TIP]
====
When implementing a new PDS product integration you should always start with a normal,
executable script (e.g. `bash`).

So you can simply call your script standalone and when it works you just have to create
the PDS configuration file and make the script callable.
====

===== How PDS provides output and error stream content of running jobs in clustered environments
include::concept_pds_fetch_stream_of_running_job.adoc[]

===== How PDS handles meta data
include::concept_pds_handle_metadata.adoc[]

===== How PDS handles storage data
include::concept_pds_handle_storage_parts_at_runtime.adoc[]

===== How PDS handles user messages
include::concept_product_message_pds_dataflow.adoc[]

===== How PDS handles execution events
include::concept_pds_events_dataflow.adoc[]

===== How PDS product executors configure the PDS adapter
include::concept_pds_adapter_configuration.adoc[]

==== SecHub integration
===== Executors and Adapters
====== Executors
With `PDS` there is a default `REST` `API` available.

For different scanTypyes there will be dedicated PDSExecutors
(`PDSWebScanExecutor`, `PDSInfraScanExecutor`, etc., etc.)

====== Adapters
The Adapter will always be the same, but filled with other necessary parameters.

NOTE: So there will be no need to write any adapter or executor when using PDS!


=== HowTo integrate a new product via PDS

Having new security product XYZ but being a command line tool, we


- create an environment (e.g. a docker container) where all your needed parts are integrated.
  E.g. bash shell, tools, the product and its dependencies etc.

- create an executable starter script (e.g. bash) which
  * calls the product
  * does system out/err to standard pipes
  * writes the product result report to relative path `./output/result.txt`

- create a `PSD` configuration file and fill with necessary data, see <<section-pds-server-config-file,PDS server configuration file>>

- start wanted amount of `ProductDelegationServer` instances with dedicated configuration
  setup to have a clustered, server ready execution of CLI security products. If you want your
  PDS to be started inside a cluster you have to setup load balancing etc. by your own.
  For example: When using Kubernetes you normally would do this by just defining a
  `Service` pointing to your `PODs`.

- test via developer admin UI if the servers are working:
  * create test job, remember PDS job uuid
  * upload data
  * mark job as ready to start
  * check job state
  * fetch result and inspect

- when former test was successful
  * Define executor on {sechub} server side - *will be implemented with #148*
  * When your product uses sereco general report format your are done- *will be implemented with #283*
    otherwise SERECO must have a logic to import custom format for the PRODUCT - means needs an
    implementatiion

- test via {sechub} client by starting a new {sechub} job which shall use the product and verify results

Commit message:

SecHub data encryption #3250 (#3254)
* SecHub
  - described concept of data encryption #3250
  - Introduced sechub-encryption #3273 + update bouncy castle version #3275
  - encryption implementation are now inside own gradle sub module "sechub-encryption"
  - refacotred sechub encryption library #3274

  - implemented data encryption inside SecHub #3250
  - restricted access and storage, avoid using configuration when not
    absolut necessary
  - created dedicated job message which contains unencrypted configuration
    at runtime. Only one message uses this one -> clear not accidently
    used on another code location
  - created migration scripts, seperated pool id generation for h2 and
    postgres because of binary type. Also postgres will migrate old
    data automatically to NoneCipher variant (means no real encryption,
    but admin will be able to rotate keys...)
  - wrote tests
  - introduced new usecases
  - new  REST APIs introduced
  - added integration test for encryption rotation
  - added developer admin ui actions

  - auto cleanup does also auto clean old unused encryption pool data
 - Scheduler now only executes for accepted encryption pool ids #3250
  -  Updated open api file for encryption parts #3250

*  PDS 
  - implemented data encryption + documentation #3264
  - NONE is default cipher encryption, means startup possible without
  encryption 
  - summary log service shows encryption algorithm
  - handled encryption out of sync problems on PDS side and
  at SecHub side

sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/concepts/concept_pds.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
=== Product delegation server

==== General
There are many open source clients available having no server component inside so lacking:

- REST access
- queuing
- status requests
- scalable
- … more

So when we want to adapt them in {sechub} style _(the product does the work and we ask for result)_ we
need to provide a `ProductDelegationServer` (in short form `PDS`).

`PDS` is

- a spring boot application which uses a network DB for providing cluster possibility
- a complete standalone application without runtime dependencies to {sechub} server (or its shared kernel)
- provides REST access
- a very simple privilege model with just two users (`tech user` + `admin user`),
  basic auth via `TLS`, credentials are simply defined by environment entries on startup
- provides jobs, queing, monitoring etc.
- can execute single files (e.g. a bash script), where job parameters are
  available as environment variables at runtime
- a standard way to integrate any product into {sechub} in a scalable and easy way

==== Handling of resources
- PDS server provides `auto unzipping` of uploaded resources when configured  - see <<section-pds-server-config-file,PDS server configuration file>>
- When a PDS job fails or is done the resources inside job workspace location are *automatically removed*

==== Big picture
plantuml::diagrams/diagram_concept_product_delgation_server_bigpicture.puml[]

==== Encryption
include::concept_pds_data_encryption.adoc[]

[[concept-pds-auto-cleanup]]
==== Auto cleanup
The PDS provides an auto cleanup mechanism which will remove old PDS jobs automatically.

The default configuration is set to 2 days.
Administrators can change the default configuration via REST.


[[pds-storage-and-sharing]]
==== Storage and sharing

{pds} needs - like {sechub} - the possiblity to store job data in a central storage location when
operating inside a cluster _(it's not clear which cluster member uploads job data and which one does execute
the job and need the data at exectuion time)._

{pds} does use the already existing `sechub-storage-*` libraries which provide storage mechanism for S3 and
for shared volumes.

[TIP]
====
The next examples explain the different situations appearing for a PDS cluster executing product "XYZ",
but of course this applies to multiple clusters for different products as well
====

[NOTE]
====
For non clustered environment "shared volumes" can also be local file system paths like
`/opt/storage/pds/XYZ`
====

[WARNING]
====
When talking about a NFS or a shared volume here, this is always meant to be a file system path.
It's important to mount a NFS at a local file path for the PDS server when using a shared volume.
URLs are NOT supported - only file paths. So you must mount your network file storage to a local file location!

For example: a base path for a shared volume could look like: `/media/mounted-storage/`
====


===== Shared S3 storage

In the <<section-pds-s3-storage-example-shared-s3-buckets,next example>> PDS and SecHub are using the same S3 bucket to store files uploaded by the user.

We have two different scenarios here:

* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is `true` +
  In this case the way is exactly as shown in next picture: +
  - The user uploads job data for a {sechub} job and it is stored at shared S3 bucket _(blue lines)_.
  - When {sechub} job is starting it will create a {pds} job but does not upload any additional data.
  - When PDS job is starting the PDS server will fetch workspace files from existing {sechub} job data _(red lines)_.
  - The storage path location is for {pds} and {sechub}  `${sharedS3Bucket}/jobstorage/${secHubJobUUID}/`


[[section-pds-s3-storage-example-shared-s3-buckets]]
plantuml::diagrams/diagram_concept_pds_storage_example_shared_s3_bucket.puml[]

* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is NOT `true` +
  In this case the way is NOT like in picture before, but more like in <<pds-storage-different-s3,Different S3 storages>>.
  Read there for more details - it's the same - except there are not 2 different S3 buckets but only one.


[[pds-storage-different-s3]]
===== Different S3 storages
In the <<section-pds-s3-storage-example-diff-s3-buckets,next example>> PDS and SecHub are using different S3 buckets as storage.

We have two different scenarios here:

* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is NOT `true` +
  In this case the way is exactly as shown in next picture: +
  - The user uploads job data for a {sechub} job and it is stored at shared S3 bucket _(blue lines)_.
  - The storage path location for {sechub} is `${sechubS3Bucket}/jobstorage/${secHubJobUUID}/`
  - When {sechub} job is starting it will create and initialize a {pds} job by uploading all existing job data by {pds} rest API.
    This will store job data at {pds} storage. _(green lines)_.
  - When PDS job is starting, the  PDS server will fetch workspace files from its {pds} job data _(red lines)_.
  - The storage path location for {pds} is `${pdsS3Bucket}/pds/${pdsProductIdentifier}/${pdsJobUUID}/`


[[section-pds-s3-storage-example-diff-s3-buckets]]
plantuml::diagrams/diagram_concept_pds_storage_example_different_s3_buckets.puml[]


* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is `true`

WARNING: This will NOT WORK! The job storage will not be found and an error will be thrown at job execution time.

===== Same shared volume (NFS)
In the <<section-pds-s3-storage-example-shared-nfs,next example>> PDS server and SecHub are using same shared volume as storage.

We have two different scenarios here:

* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is `true` +
  In this case the way is exactly as shown in next picture: +
  - The user uploads job data for a {sechub} job and it is stored at shared volume _(blue lines)_.
  - When {sechub} job is starting it will create a {pds} job but does not upload any additional data.
  - When PDS job is starting the PDS server will fetch workspace files from existing {sechub} job data _(red lines)_.
  - The storage path location is for {pds} and {sechub}  `${sharedVolumeBasePath}/jobstorage/${secHubJobUUID}/`

[[section-pds-s3-storage-example-shared-nfs]]
plantuml::diagrams/diagram_concept_pds_storage_example_shared_nfs.puml[]

* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is NOT `true` +
  In this case the way is NOT like in picture before, but more like in <<pds-storage-different-sharedvolume,Different shared volumes>>.
  Read there for more details - it's the same - except there are not 2 different NFS but only one.


[[pds-storage-different-sharedvolume]]
===== Different shared volumes (NFS)
In the <<section-pds-s3-storage-example-diff-nfs,next example>> PDS and SecHub are using different shared volumes as storage.

We have two different scenarios here:

* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is NOT `true` +
  In this case the way is exactly as shown in next picture: +
  - The user uploads job data for a {sechub} job and it is stored at {sechub} shared volume _(blue lines)_.
  - The storage path location for {sechub} is `${sechubSharedVolumeBasePath}/jobstorage/${secHubJobUUID}/`
  - When {sechub} job is starting it will create and initialize a {pds} job by uploading all existing job data by {pds} rest API.
    This will store job data at {pds} storage. _(green lines)_.
  - When PDS job is starting, the  PDS server will fetch workspace files from its {pds} job data _(red lines)_.
  - The storage path location for {pds} is `${pdsSharedVolumeBasePath}/pds/${pdsProductIdentifier}/${pdsJobUUID}/`

[[section-pds-s3-storage-example-diff-nfs]]
plantuml::diagrams/diagram_concept_pds_storage_example_different_nfs.puml[]


* Product executor configuration `pds.config.use.sechub.storage` is `true`

WARNING: This will NOT WORK! The job storage will not be found and an error will be thrown at job execution time.

[[pds-storage-mixing-sharedvolume-and-s3]]
===== Mixing S3 and shared volume (NFS)
This <<section-pds-s3-storage-example-s3-nfs-mixed,example>> is only mentioned for the sake of completeness: It is the same as before described for different S3 and different shared volumes:
`pds.config.use.sechub.storage` cannot be used in this case.

When not reusing {sechub} storage, this scenario does work also well. In the next picture, {sechub} itself would use a S3 storage and he
PDS instances for product `XYZ` would use a NFS to store job data. But of course it could be also the other way.

[[section-pds-s3-storage-example-s3-nfs-mixed]]
plantuml::diagrams/diagram_concept_pds_storage_example_s3_and_nfs_mixed.puml[]

[[pds-process-handling]]
==== Process execution
PDS instances are executing so called `caller scripts` by spanning a new process. At this time
dedicated environment variables are automatically injected and available inside the scripts.

[TIP]
====
When implementing a new PDS product integration you should always start with a normal,
executable script (e.g. `bash`).

So you can simply call your script standalone and when it works you just have to create
the PDS configuration file and make the script callable.
====

===== How PDS provides output and error stream content of running jobs in clustered environments
include::concept_pds_fetch_stream_of_running_job.adoc[]

===== How PDS handles meta data
include::concept_pds_handle_metadata.adoc[]

===== How PDS handles storage data
include::concept_pds_handle_storage_parts_at_runtime.adoc[]

===== How PDS handles user messages
include::concept_product_message_pds_dataflow.adoc[]

===== How PDS handles execution events
include::concept_pds_events_dataflow.adoc[]

===== How PDS product executors configure the PDS adapter
include::concept_pds_adapter_configuration.adoc[]

==== SecHub integration
===== Executors and Adapters
====== Executors
With `PDS` there is a default `REST` `API` available.

For different scanTypyes there will be dedicated PDSExecutors
(`PDSWebScanExecutor`, `PDSInfraScanExecutor`, etc., etc.)

====== Adapters
The Adapter will always be the same, but filled with other necessary parameters.

NOTE: So there will be no need to write any adapter or executor when using PDS!


==== HowTo integrate a new product via PDS

Having new security product XYZ but being a command line tool, we


- create an environment (e.g. a docker container) where all your needed parts are integrated.
  E.g. bash shell, tools, the product and its dependencies etc.

- create an executable starter script (e.g. bash) which
  * calls the product
  * does system out/err to standard pipes
  * writes the product result report to relative path `./output/result.txt`

- create a `PSD` configuration file and fill with necessary data, see <<section-pds-server-config-file,PDS server configuration file>>

- start wanted amount of `ProductDelegationServer` instances with dedicated configuration
  setup to have a clustered, server ready execution of CLI security products. If you want your
  PDS to be started inside a cluster you have to setup load balancing etc. by your own.
  For example: When using Kubernetes you normally would do this by just defining a
  `Service` pointing to your `PODs`.

- test via developer admin UI if the servers are working:
  * create test job, remember PDS job uuid
  * upload data
  * mark job as ready to start
  * check job state
  * fetch result and inspect

- when former test was successful
  * Define executor on {sechub} server side - *will be implemented with #148*
  * When your product uses sereco general report format your are done- *will be implemented with #283*
    otherwise SERECO must have a logic to import custom format for the PRODUCT - means needs an
    implementatiion

- test via {sechub} client by starting a new {sechub} job which shall use the product and verify results

[CAUTION]
====
Output and error stream of a PDS launcher script are stored in {pds} database as plain text!
Means: NEVER log any sensitive data in launcher scripts! 

If you want to give hints for debugging etc. you have to mask the information in log output. 
====
