sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/concepts/concept_auto_clean.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[concept-auto-cleanup]]
=== Auto cleanup
To prevent full hard drives there is an option to automatically remove old data.

[NOTE]
====
See also

- <<section-usecase-UC_064,UC_064-Admin fetches auto cleanup configuration>>)
- <<section-usecase-UC_065,UC_065-Admin updates auto cleanup configuration>>)
- <<section-usecase-UC_066,UC_066-Sechub administration domain auto cleanup>>)
- <<section-usecase-UC_067,UC_067-Sechub scan domain auto cleanup>>)
- <<section-usecase-UC_068,UC_068-Sechub schedule domain auto cleanup>>)
====


==== Configuration
Administrators can configure the auto cleanup configuration by uploading a json configuration via
REST (see <<section-ucrestdoc-uc-UC_065,REST API for UC_065-Admin updates auto cleanup configuration >>).

[source,json]
----
include::concept_auto_cleanup_configuration_example.json[]
----
<1> The time unit to use. +
    Can be 
    - day(s), DAY(S) 
    - month(s), MONTH(S)
    - week(s), WEEK(S) or
    - year(s), YEAR(S) +
    
<2> Amount of time. When `0` is defined, the auto cleanup is deactivated, all other positive values are time 
    unit related. Negative values are not allowed.

==== Execution
The execution is automatically done by {sechub}. 

==== Cleaned data
All data which is older than the defined time period is removed from:

- Scan product results
- Scan project log 
- Schedule job entries
- Administration job information

[NOTE]
====
Scan report data is currently NOT deleted. So it can be used for statistics.
In a later feature there will be specialized statistic tables - when this has been implemented,
the auto cleanup will be extended to drop old scan report data as well.
====

Commit message:

SecHub data encryption #3250 (#3254)
* SecHub
  - described concept of data encryption #3250
  - Introduced sechub-encryption #3273 + update bouncy castle version #3275
  - encryption implementation are now inside own gradle sub module "sechub-encryption"
  - refacotred sechub encryption library #3274

  - implemented data encryption inside SecHub #3250
  - restricted access and storage, avoid using configuration when not
    absolut necessary
  - created dedicated job message which contains unencrypted configuration
    at runtime. Only one message uses this one -> clear not accidently
    used on another code location
  - created migration scripts, seperated pool id generation for h2 and
    postgres because of binary type. Also postgres will migrate old
    data automatically to NoneCipher variant (means no real encryption,
    but admin will be able to rotate keys...)
  - wrote tests
  - introduced new usecases
  - new  REST APIs introduced
  - added integration test for encryption rotation
  - added developer admin ui actions

  - auto cleanup does also auto clean old unused encryption pool data
 - Scheduler now only executes for accepted encryption pool ids #3250
  -  Updated open api file for encryption parts #3250

*  PDS 
  - implemented data encryption + documentation #3264
  - NONE is default cipher encryption, means startup possible without
  encryption 
  - summary log service shows encryption algorithm
  - handled encryption out of sync problems on PDS side and
  at SecHub side

sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/concepts/concept_auto_clean.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[concept-auto-cleanup]]
=== Auto cleanup
To prevent full hard drives there is an option to automatically remove old data.

It also cleans up old encryption settings when it comes to <<section-shared-concepts-sechub-data-encryption-rotation,encryption rotation>>. 

[NOTE]
====
See also

- <<section-usecase-UC_064,UC_064-Admin fetches auto cleanup configuration>>)
- <<section-usecase-UC_065,UC_065-Admin updates auto cleanup configuration>>)
- <<section-usecase-UC_066,UC_066-Sechub administration domain auto cleanup>>)
- <<section-usecase-UC_067,UC_067-Sechub scan domain auto cleanup>>)
- <<section-usecase-UC_068,UC_068-Sechub schedule domain auto cleanup>>)
====


==== Configuration
Administrators can configure the auto cleanup configuration by uploading a json configuration via
REST (see <<section-ucrestdoc-uc-UC_065,REST API for UC_065-Admin updates auto cleanup configuration >>).

[source,json]
----
include::concept_auto_cleanup_configuration_example.json[]
----
<1> The time unit to use. +
    Can be 
    - day(s), DAY(S) 
    - month(s), MONTH(S)
    - week(s), WEEK(S) or
    - year(s), YEAR(S) +
    
<2> Amount of time. When `0` is defined, the auto cleanup is deactivated, all other positive values are time 
    unit related. Negative values are not allowed.

==== Execution
The execution is automatically done by {sechub}. 

==== Cleaned data
All data which is older than the defined time period is removed from:

- Scan product results
- Scan project log 
- Schedule job entries
- Administration job information

[NOTE]
====
Scan report data is currently NOT deleted. So it can be used for statistics.
In a later feature there will be specialized statistic tables - when this has been implemented,
the auto cleanup will be extended to drop old scan report data as well.
====
