sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/concepts/concept_pds_handle_metadata.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[concept-pds_solution_metadata]]

When communication of {pds} with the used product is stateful and is a long running operation, 
it can be useful to store such state/meta data.  

One use case is the restart possibility for a {sechub} job. Another one are debugging or 
trace information.

[TIP]
====
Most times {pds} solutions do not need to store special meta data information: When the PDS job starts
a CLI tool, the result or the failure will just be returned to the {sechub} side.

If it shall be done again (because of on failure) just a new {pds} job will be started. 

If a PDS job has meta data this means it should be restarted
====

A {pds} launcher script has no access to the {pds} database!
If meta data shall be read or written, we just have the workspace file `metadata.txt`. 
Inside this file the product relevant meta data
of the job run must be available, see next diagram for details:

plantuml::diagrams/diagram_pds_metadata.puml[] 

====== Checkmarx PDS solution adapter meta data handling

The {pds} solution for `Checkmarx` does reuse the already existing `CheckmarxAdapter` class.
A `sechub-wrapper-checkmarx` gradle project was introduced which contains a simple spring boot
CLI application which uses the adapter for communication. The adapter callback is not directly
reading or writing to the database but uses the `metadata.txt` file from the {pds} workspace. 

Look at next figure for more details: 


plantuml::diagrams/diagram_pds_solution_checkmarx_overview.puml[]

Commit message:

PDS REST documentation + minor changes #914
- changed annotation and usecase identifier name for UC__009
  because failure text is no longer added automatically and
  the naming was confusing. Changed also documentation parts
- added missing developer admin ui action to fetch PDS job meta data

sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/concepts/concept_pds_handle_metadata.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[concept-pds_solution_metadata]]
====== General
When communication of {pds} with the used product is stateful and is a long running operation, 
it can be useful to store state information as meta data.  

One use case is the restart possibility for a {sechub} job. Another one are debugging or 
trace information. The meta data from PDS can be reused by {sechub}.

An administrator is able to fetch job meta data via <<section-rest-fetch-job-meta-data,REST>> .


[TIP]
====
Most times {pds} solutions do not need to store special meta data information: When the PDS 
job starts a CLI tool, the result or the failure will just be returned to the {sechub} side.

If it shall be done again (because of on failure) just a new {pds} job will be started. 

If a PDS job has meta data this means it should be restarted
====
====== PDS job meta data file
*Access mechanism* +
A {pds} launcher script has no access to the {pds} database.
If meta data shall be read or written, we have a dedicated workspace file to write into.
The location of the file is available with environment variable `PDS_JOB_METADATA_FILE`.

*Exchanging meta data with SecHub* +
The PDS executors inside {sechub} are able to access meta data (e.g. for restart handling).
See next diagram for details:

plantuml::diagrams/diagram_pds_metadata.puml[]

The meta data file must have the same meta data syntax as in {sechub} product results: 

[source,json]
----
include::../../pds/pds-metadata-file-example2.json[]
----
<1> Inside the `metaData` element we can provide any kind of key value combination.

====== Checkmarx PDS solution adapter meta data handling

The {pds} solution for `Checkmarx` does reuse the already existing `CheckmarxAdapter` class.
A `sechub-wrapper-checkmarx` gradle project was introduced which contains a simple spring boot
CLI application which uses the adapter for communication. The adapter callback is not directly
reading or writing to the database but uses the `metadata.txt` file from the {pds} workspace. 

Look at next figure for more details: 


plantuml::diagrams/diagram_pds_solution_checkmarx_overview.puml[]
