sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/concepts/concept_templates_and_assets.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[sechub-concept-templates-and-assets]]
==== Templates and assets
===== About 
When it comes to complex configurations it can be cumbersome for {sechub} users, difficult for support
and - depending on the product - very hard to provide a complete generic approach via {sechub}  configuration
only. 

===== Example situation
To clarify this abstract situation here an example: +

Think about a wide range of applications inside a corporation which want to use a common 
single sign on with multi factor authentication and some other specific parts.

The login configuration would become complex and error prone because not every user would
understand exactly what to do. If the single-signon mechanism would change, every project/user
would need to change their {sechub} configuration files! When talking about hundreds of projects
this would be a great effort - for users and for support!

And let us assume the used product has hundreds of options which cannot be configured
by a generic approach easily (e.g. form login definition in configuration): How could this product
be provided in a desired way then?
 
And what if there are some specific parts which are not 100% same in every of these projects? 
 
This is the reason for the "templates and assets" concept which is described below.

===== Templates
{sechub} can have multiple templates . Every template has a type and can contains a set of 
assets and also a variable definition. It can be administrated via
REST end points:

```
PUT    /api/admin/template/$template-id
GET    /api/admin/template/$template-id
DELETE /api/admin/template/$template-id
```

PUT will contain a body with the template data:

====== Template id format
A template id

- has a minimum length of 3
- has a maximum length of 40
- can contain only `a-z` `A-Z`, `0-9` or  `-` or `_`


====== Template definition
The template definitions are hold inside {sechub} database.
A template is defined by following json syntax:

.Template definition syntax
[source,json]
----
include::../snippet/template-definition-syntax.json[]
----
<1> The type of the template. Must be set when a template is created. Will
    be ignored on updates. Possible values are: `webscan-login`
<2> Array with asset identifiers assigned to the template
<3> Variable definitions as list of key and value pairs which can be mandatory or optional. 
Via the type {sechub} server is able to check if the configuration is valid and give 
response to users when job starts.
<4> Name of the variable
<5> Describes if the variable is optional.  +
    When `false` configuration must contain the variable inside template data. When `true`
    the configuration is valid without the variable. The default is `false`.
<6> Variable content validation definition ((optional)
<7> Minimum length (optional)
<8> Maximum length (optional)
<9> Regular expression (optional). If defined, the content must match the given regular expression
    to be valid. 

[CAUTION]
====
The validation section inside the definition is only for a "first simple check" on {sechub} side, to
stop before any {pds} job is created. 

*But {pds} solutions which are using templates must ensure,that the given user content 
(variable) is correct and not some malicious injected data!*
====
===== Mapping templates to projects

plantuml::./diagrams/diagram_templates-mapping-to-projects.puml[format=svg, title="Mapping of templates and projects"]


As shown in the figure above, the template data is hold inside domain "scan". The reason is, that
template details are necessary inside the scan operation and no where else.

The association between project and used templates is done in administration domain because the project
entity and its details are used here. At the `administration` domain only the template identifiers 
used by this project are necessary.

A mapping of templates to a project is dependent on the template type: Same type of a template cannot
be added twice to a project! Because the `administration` domain does not know about the template details,
a synchronous event to `scan` domain will be sent to assign the template to the project.

The scan domain will update this information inside `ScanProjectConfig` entities and will drop
a former assigned template of same type from the config.

After this is done as a syncron result the scan domain will return all assigned 
templates, as shown in next figure:

plantuml::./diagrams/diagram_templates-mapping-to-projects-events.puml[format=svg, title="Mapping of templates and projects (Events)"]


```
PUT     /api/admin/project/$projectId/template/$templateId
DELETE  /api/admin/project/$projectId/template/$templateId
GET     /api/admin/project/$projectId/templates
```

[NOTE]
====
The mapping is stored with template type as part of the composite key: 
If two template definitions with same type are uploaded, the last one will
overwrite the first one.
====

===== SecHub configuration file
The users can now define in their {sechub} configuration file that they want to use the
configured template for web scanning by defining a templateData section inside the login
configuration.

For example:
[source,json]
----
include::../configuration/sechub_config_example22_webscan_with_template.json[]
----
<1> Define template data for the login. The user
is not able to define which template is used.
<2> Setup template variables by a list of key and value pairs. 

If the user has defined a `templateData` section in the configuration but no template of that type is assigned to the project, a
dedicated error message must be returned to the user and the {sechub} job will always fail.

[IMPORTANT]
====
For templates and assets we must use shared storage between {sechub} and {pds} .
{pds} solutions may not to provide own storage for {pds} - different storages 
are not supported here.
====

====== Asset id format
An asset id

- has a minimum length of 3
- has a maximum length of 40
- can contain only `a-z` `A-Z`, `0-9` or  `-` or `_`

====== {sechub} server uses product identifiers for asset ids
The {sechub} server will use the product identifiers (like in the executor configurations)
as filenames when storing asset data inside database (and also inside storage).

Here an example for storage paths:
```
/assets/
   asset-id-1/
      PDS_OWASP_ZAP.zip
      PDS_OWASP_ZAP.zip.sha256
      OTHER_PRODUCT_X.zip
      OTHER_PRODUCT_X.zip.sha256
```
[TIP]
====
The content and the structure inside the ZIP files is absolute solution specific :
The PDS solution defines which kind of template data is necessary and how the 
structure looks like!
====

===== Administration
====== General
Over REST API Administrators will be able to 

- list (ZIP) file names +
  `GET /api/administration/asset/$assetId/list`
- upload asset ZIP files by REST API and create checksum file +
  `PUT /api/administration/asset/$assetId/$productId`
- download asset files by REST API  +
  `GET /api/administration/asset/$assetId/$productId`
- delete single asset file by REST API  +
  `DELETE /api/administration/asset/$assetId/$productId`
- delete all asset files by REST API  +
  `DELETE /api/administration/asset/$assetId`

The REST API will always create an audit log entry 

====== Upload
The upload and delete operations will always handle DB and storage (S3/NFS)!
If an asset ZIP file already exists, the operation will overwrite the file and the 
old sha256 checksum in both locations.

[TIP]
====
Main reason why we store always in DB and use storage (S3/NFS) as a cache only:

1. Restore a DB backup on a fresh installation:  +
   Administrators can just apply the database backup and everything works again
2. Storage could be volatile/be deleted etc. (we rely to the database)
3. For having multiple and also different cluster types ( {sechub} cluster and multiple {pds} clusters)
   having not same database we need a common way to exchange data.
   Each {pds} cluster and also the {sechub} cluster have their own
   database - means cannot be used for exchange.
====
 

[IMPORTANT]
====
This works only when the storage is shared between {sechub} and {pds}.
If the {pds} uses its own storage (which should NOT be done for production, but only
for PDS solution development) the assets would needed to be uploaded directly to the PDS storage 
location with correct checksum etc. 
====

===== SecHub runtime
====== Validate config uses valid template location
When a {sechub} job starts and there is a template data definition inside the configuration, 
{sechub} will validate if the project has a template assigned for the location inside
the configuration. e.g. templates with type `webscan-login` may only be defined inside 
web scan login configuration).

If this validation fails, the complete {sechub} job will fail and stop processing.

[[sechub-concept-asset-upload-lazy]]
====== Validate config uses valid template location 

When validation did not fail, {sechub} will check if the current version of the
necessary product specific asset ZIP file is exsting in storage. 

When not uploaded to storage, the file will be uploaded before the job is 
further processed.

====== Template PDS parameter calculation
If the job configuration has valid template data and the template 
is available in storage, {sechub} will calculate the
{pds} parameter : `pds.template.metadata` with JSON:

[[sechub-concept-template-metadata-example]]
.PDS parameter syntax for template meta data
[source,json]
----
include::../snippet/pds-param-template-metadata-syntax.json[]
----
<1> Meta data array
<2> Template identifier - just as an information for logging etc.
<3> Template type
<4> Asset information array
<5> Asset identifier
<6> Name of file (inside asset)
<7> Checksum of the file (SHA256)

===== PDS runtime
====== Asset handling
{sechub} calls {pds}, with {pds} parameter `pds.template.metadata` (syntax is described above).

The {pds} instance will fetch all defined files from storage (S3 or NFS) 
and extract/copy it to `$workspaceFolder/assets/`. 

Before extraction is done a checksum for the downloaded file is created and compared
with the checksum from template meta data. The checksum algorithm is SHA256.
If it is different the {pds} job will fail with a dedicated error message.

If the checksum is valid, the assets ZIP file will be unzipped below a subfolder with the 
template type:
 
[source,text]
----
`$workspaceFolder/
     assets/
        $template-type/
                    ...
----

An example:

The `WEBSCAN_PRODUCT_ID.zip` file contains

[source,text]
----
/script.js
/development/
             debug-settings.json
----

and the template meta data looks like this:

[source,json]
----
include::../snippet/pds-param-template-metadata-example1.json[]
----

The extraction is done into folder:
`$workspaceFolder/assets/$type/`

For the former example `WEBSCAN_PRODUCT_ID.zip` will be extracted the following way:

[source,text]
----
`$workspaceFolder/
     assets/
        webscan-login/
                    script.js
                    development/
                              debug-settings.json
   
----

====== Pseudo code for usage inside PDS solutions/wrappers

Here an example (but pseudo code) how a product could use the assets inside 
a wrapper application for a PDS solution:

[source,java]
----

import com.mercedesbenz.sechub.commons.model.template.*;

WebScanTemplateData templateData = util.fetchWebScanTemplateData(sechubConfig);
if (templateData!=null){

    // folder=/$workspaceFolder/assets
    File folder = util.getAssetFolder();
    
    // fetch file: in example it is a web scan login template
    File scriptFile = folder.getChild(ID_WEBSCAN_LOGIN+"/script.js");
    
    // process
    String script = readTextFile(scriptFile);
    script = replaceVariableInScript(templateData.getVariable("username"), script);
    script = replaceVariableInScript(templateData.getVariable("password"), script);
    
    // use script
    // ...
}

----

Commit message:

Inititial asset implementations #3553
- usecases for asset CRUD operations
- AssertFile entity + DB parts
- assert service
- TestUtil enhanced, now a dedicated sub folder can be defined
  for temporary files
- implemented asset storages (+ AbstractSharedVolumeStorage)
- introduced asset storage factories

sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/concepts/concept_templates_and_assets.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
[[sechub-concept-templates-and-assets]]
==== Templates and assets
===== About 
When it comes to complex configurations it can be cumbersome for {sechub} users, difficult for support
and - depending on the product - very hard to provide a complete generic approach via {sechub}  configuration
only. 

===== Example situation
To clarify this abstract situation here an example: +

Think about a wide range of applications inside a corporation which want to use a common 
single sign on with multi factor authentication and some other specific parts.

The login configuration would become complex and error prone because not every user would
understand exactly what to do. If the single-signon mechanism would change, every project/user
would need to change their {sechub} configuration files! When talking about hundreds of projects
this would be a great effort - for users and for support!

And let us assume the used product has hundreds of options which cannot be configured
by a generic approach easily (e.g. form login definition in configuration): How could this product
be provided in a desired way then?
 
And what if there are some specific parts which are not 100% same in every of these projects? 
 
This is the reason for the "templates and assets" concept which is described below.

===== Templates
{sechub} can have multiple templates . Every template has a type and can contains a set of 
assets and also a variable definition. It can be administrated via
REST end points:

```
PUT    /api/admin/template/$template-id
GET    /api/admin/template/$template-id
DELETE /api/admin/template/$template-id
```

PUT will contain a body with the template data:

====== Template id format
A template id

- has a minimum length of 3
- has a maximum length of 40
- can contain only `a-z` `A-Z`, `0-9` or  `-` or `_`


====== Template definition
The template definitions are hold inside {sechub} database.
A template is defined by following json syntax:

.Template definition syntax
[source,json]
----
include::../snippet/template-definition-syntax.json[]
----
<1> The type of the template. Must be set when a template is created. Will
    be ignored on updates. Possible values are: `webscan-login`
<2> Array with asset identifiers assigned to the template
<3> Variable definitions as list of key and value pairs which can be mandatory or optional. 
Via the type {sechub} server is able to check if the configuration is valid and give 
response to users when job starts.
<4> Name of the variable
<5> Describes if the variable is optional.  +
    When `false` configuration must contain the variable inside template data. When `true`
    the configuration is valid without the variable. The default is `false`.
<6> Variable content validation definition ((optional)
<7> Minimum length (optional)
<8> Maximum length (optional)
<9> Regular expression (optional). If defined, the content must match the given regular expression
    to be valid. 

[CAUTION]
====
The validation section inside the definition is only for a "first simple check" on {sechub} side, to
stop before any {pds} job is created. 

*But {pds} solutions which are using templates must ensure,that the given user content 
(variable) is correct and not some malicious injected data!*
====
====== Mapping templates to projects

plantuml::./diagrams/diagram_templates-mapping-to-projects.puml[format=svg, title="Mapping of templates and projects"]


As shown in the figure above, the template data is hold inside domain "scan". The reason is, that
template details are necessary inside the scan operation and no where else.

The association between project and used templates is done in administration domain because the project
entity and its details are used here. At the `administration` domain only the template identifiers 
used by this project are necessary.

A mapping of templates to a project is dependent on the template type: Same type of a template cannot
be added twice to a project! Because the `administration` domain does not know about the template details,
a synchronous event to `scan` domain will be sent to assign the template to the project.

The scan domain will update this information inside `ScanProjectConfig` entities and will drop
a former assigned template of same type from the config.

After this is done as a syncron result the scan domain will return all assigned 
templates, as shown in next figure:

plantuml::./diagrams/diagram_templates-mapping-to-projects-events.puml[format=svg, title="Mapping of templates and projects (Events)"]


```
PUT     /api/admin/project/$projectId/template/$templateId
DELETE  /api/admin/project/$projectId/template/$templateId
GET     /api/admin/project/$projectId/templates
```

[NOTE]
====
The mapping is stored with template type as part of the composite key: 
If two template definitions with same type are uploaded, the last one will
overwrite the first one.
====

====== Templates in SecHub configuration file
The users can now define in their {sechub} configuration file that they want to use the
configured template for web scanning by defining a templateData section inside the login
configuration.

For example:
[source,json]
----
include::../configuration/sechub_config_example22_webscan_with_template.json[]
----
<1> Define template data for the login. The user
is not able to define which template is used.
<2> Setup template variables by a list of key and value pairs. 

If the user has defined a `templateData` section in the configuration but no template of that type is assigned to the project, a
dedicated error message must be returned to the user and the {sechub} job will always fail.

[IMPORTANT]
====
For templates and assets we must use shared storage between {sechub} and {pds} .
{pds} solutions may not to provide own storage for {pds} - different storages 
are not supported here.
====

===== Assets
====== Asset id format
An asset id

- has a minimum length of 3
- has a maximum length of 40
- can contain only `a-z` `A-Z`, `0-9` or  `-` or `_`

====== {sechub} server uses product identifiers for asset ids
The {sechub} server will use the product identifiers from {pds} executor configurations
as filenames when storing asset data inside database and storage. The product identifiers
are also defined inside the {pds} server configuration files.

Here an example for storage paths:
```
/assets/
   asset-id-1/
      PDS_OWASP_ZAP.zip
      PDS_OWASP_ZAP.zip.sha256
      OTHER_PRODUCT_X.zip
      OTHER_PRODUCT_X.zip.sha256
```
[TIP]
====
The content and the structure inside the ZIP files is absolute solution specific :
The PDS solution defines which kind of template data is necessary and how the 
structure looks like!
====

====== Asset operations
*General*

*Usecases*

- Admin creates or updates asset
-  

Over REST API Administrators will be able to 

- upload asset ZIP files by REST API and create checksum file +
  `PUT /api/administration/asset/$assetId/file/$filename`
- download asset files by REST API  +
  `GET /api/administration/asset/$assetId/file/$filename`
- list (ZIP) file names +
  `GET /api/administration/asset/$assetId/list`
- delete single asset file by REST API  +
  `DELETE /api/administration/asset/$assetId/file/$filename`
- delete all asset data by REST API  +
  `DELETE /api/administration/asset/$assetId`

The REST API will always create an audit log entry 

*Upload*

The upload and delete operations will always handle DB and storage (S3/NFS)!
If an asset ZIP file already exists, the operation will overwrite the file and the 
old sha256 checksum in both locations.

[TIP]
====
Main reason why we store always in DB and use storage (S3/NFS) as a cache only:

1. Restore a DB backup on a fresh installation:  +
   Administrators can just apply the database backup and everything works again
2. Storage could be volatile/be deleted etc. (we rely to the database)
3. For having multiple and also different cluster types ( {sechub} cluster and multiple {pds} clusters)
   having not same database we need a common way to exchange data.
   Each {pds} cluster and also the {sechub} cluster have their own
   database - means cannot be used for exchange.
====
 

[IMPORTANT]
====
This works only when the storage is shared between {sechub} and {pds}.
If the {pds} uses its own storage (which should NOT be done for production, but only
for PDS solution development) the assets would needed to be uploaded directly to the PDS storage 
location with correct checksum etc. 
====

===== SecHub runtime
====== Validate config uses valid template location
When a {sechub} job starts and there is a template data definition inside the configuration, 
{sechub} will validate if the project has a template assigned for the location inside
the configuration. e.g. templates with type `webscan-login` may only be defined inside 
web scan login configuration).

If this validation fails, the complete {sechub} job will fail and stop processing.

[[sechub-concept-asset-upload-lazy]]
====== Validate config uses valid template location 

When validation did not fail, {sechub} will check if the current version of the
necessary product specific asset ZIP file is exsting in storage. 

When not uploaded to storage, the file will be uploaded before the job is 
further processed.

====== Template PDS parameter calculation
If the job configuration has valid template data and the template 
is available in storage, {sechub} will calculate the
{pds} parameter : `pds.template.metadata` with JSON:

[[sechub-concept-template-metadata-example]]
.PDS parameter syntax for template meta data
[source,json]
----
include::../snippet/pds-param-template-metadata-syntax.json[]
----
<1> Meta data array
<2> Template identifier - just as an information for logging etc.
<3> Template type
<4> Asset information array
<5> Asset identifier
<6> Name of file (inside asset)
<7> Checksum of the file (SHA256)

===== PDS runtime
====== Asset handling
{sechub} calls {pds}, with {pds} parameter `pds.template.metadata` (syntax is described above).

The {pds} instance will fetch all defined files from storage (S3 or NFS) 
and extract/copy it to `$workspaceFolder/assets/`. 

Before extraction is done a checksum for the downloaded file is created and compared
with the checksum from template meta data. The checksum algorithm is SHA256.
If it is different the {pds} job will fail with a dedicated error message.

If the checksum is valid, the assets ZIP file will be unzipped below a subfolder with the 
template type:
 
[source,text]
----
`$workspaceFolder/
     assets/
        $template-type/
                    ...
----

An example:

The `WEBSCAN_PRODUCT_ID.zip` file contains

[source,text]
----
/script.js
/development/
             debug-settings.json
----

and the template meta data looks like this:

[source,json]
----
include::../snippet/pds-param-template-metadata-example1.json[]
----

The extraction is done into folder:
`$workspaceFolder/assets/$type/`

For the former example `WEBSCAN_PRODUCT_ID.zip` will be extracted the following way:

[source,text]
----
`$workspaceFolder/
     assets/
        webscan-login/
                    script.js
                    development/
                              debug-settings.json
   
----

====== Pseudo code for usage inside PDS solutions/wrappers

Here an example (but pseudo code) how a product could use the assets inside 
a wrapper application for a PDS solution:

[source,java]
----

import com.mercedesbenz.sechub.commons.model.template.*;

WebScanTemplateData templateData = util.fetchWebScanTemplateData(sechubConfig);
if (templateData!=null){

    // folder=/$workspaceFolder/assets
    File folder = util.getAssetFolder();
    
    // fetch file: in example it is a web scan login template
    File scriptFile = folder.getChild(ID_WEBSCAN_LOGIN+"/script.js");
    
    // process
    String script = readTextFile(scriptFile);
    script = replaceVariableInScript(templateData.getVariable("username"), script);
    script = replaceVariableInScript(templateData.getVariable("password"), script);
    
    // use script
    // ...
}

----
