sechub-pds-solutions/owaspzap/README.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

:toc:

= OWASP ZAP + PDS

https://www.zaproxy.org/[OWASP ZAP] is a free and open source dynamic application security testing tool. By combining OWASP ZAP with the SecHub https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/sechub-product-delegation-server.html[Product Delegation Server (PDS)] in a container, OWASP ZAP can be used with SecHub.

Furthermore, the combination of OWASP ZAP and PDS make it possible to run both inside a Kubernetes cluser or virtual machines.

This folder contains the necessary scripts to run OWASP ZAP+PDS inside a container locally. Additionally, it contains scripts to build and push the OWASP ZAP+PDS container to your container registry and a Helm chart to install and run OWASP ZAP+PDS in a Kubernetes cluster.

== Script authentication using templates and assets
This PDS solution supports templates for web scan login.

With templates it is very easy to handle complex authentication scenarios (e.g. a corporate MFA login). Please read the [technical documentation](https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/sechub-techdoc.html) for details about templates and assets.

TIP: Templates are not mandatory. If you only need Basic Auth or custom headers template definitions and usage are not necessary.

To start a scan this pds-solution executes the script link:docker/scripts/owasp-zap.sh[owasp-zap.sh].
SecHub will automatically create the directory `$PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_ASSETS_FOLDER`. The shell script requires a file called `script.groovy` inside the directory for script authentication with templates and assets to work. This script performs the authentication steps necessary for the targeted application.
When creating a template with an asset for webscan authentication and assigning it to a SecHub project, ensure that 

- `PDS_OWASP_ZAP.zip` is available as asset file inside the used asset
- `PDS_OWASP_ZAP.zip` contains `script.groovy` at root level

The PDS will extract the file at runtime to `$PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_ASSETS_FOLDER/webscan-login/script.groovy`.
If the extracted file exists by the time the script `owasp-zap.sh` is executed, the groovy script will be used for automated login.
Details about the configuration of the wrapper application that is used to configure the ZAP, can be found at link:https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/blob/develop/sechub-wrapper-owasp-zap/README.adoc[https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/blob/develop/sechub-wrapper-owasp-zap/README.adoc].

=== Script authentication template data variables
For a webscan script authentication with this pds-solution, template data with the following variables are required:

- `username`
- `password`

These variables are used for the credential data of the scan user. The `username` can be used for any type of user identification like email address, user ID, user name etc.
If TOTP is required make sure to use the dedicated entry inside the webscan authentication section of the sechub configuration JSON.

== Run Locally

This is the easiest way to get started.

=== Requirements

Docker and Docker-Compose need to be installed:

. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/[Install Docker]

. Linux: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/#manage-docker-as-a-non-root-user[Run docker as non Root user]

. https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Install Docker-Compose]

=== Single Instance

Start a single instance either by using the Bash wrapper script which does setup everything <<automatic-setup,automatically>> or follow the steps <<manual-setup,manually>>.

[[automatic-setup]]
==== Automatic Setup

The folder contains a start script which does the setup steps for you:

----
./01-start-docker-compose.sh
----

==== Together with SecHub

The container will be started and attached to the `sechub` Network.

IMPORTANT: Make sure the SecHub container is running.

. Start Debian container:
+
----
./05-start-single-sechub-network-docker-compose.sh
----

[[scan]]
=== Scan

The steps required to scan with the PDS.

==== Scan Script

WARNING: Scan only targets you have permission to scan.

. Set the environment variables
+
----
export PDS_SERVER=https://<pds-host>:<port>
export PDS_USERID=admin
export PDS_APITOKEN="<pds-admin-apitoken>"
export PDS_PRODUCT_IDENTFIER=PDS_OWASP_ZAP
----
+
For example:
+
----
export PDS_SERVER=https://localhost:8444
export PDS_USERID=admin
export PDS_APITOKEN="pds-apitoken"
export PDS_PRODUCT_IDENTFIER=PDS_OWASP_ZAP
----
+
[NOTE]
Those values are the default values from `env-initial` and `env-cluster-initial` files. In case you run PDS+OWSAP-Zap in Kubernetes or other environments those values will be different.

. Scan by providing a `target-url` or a `path-to-json-config`.
+
----
./70-test-webscan.sh <target-url or path-to-json-config-file>
----
+
For example:
+
----
./70-test.sh https://my.juiceshop.org
----
+
or
+
----
./70-test.sh my-scan-config.json
----
+
.my-scan-config.json
[source,json]
----
{
    "apiVersion" : "1.0",
    "sechubJobUUID": "288607bf-ac81-4088-842c-005d5702a9e9",
    "productId": "PDS_OWASP_ZAP",
    "parameters": [
        {
            "key" : "pds.scan.target.url",
            "value" : "https://my.juiceshop.org"
        },
        {
            "key" : "zap.activescan.enabled",
            "value" : true
        },
        {
            "key" : "zap.ajaxcrawler.enabled",
            "value" : true
        }
    ]
}
----

=== Cluster

The cluster is created locally via `docker-compose`.

==== Shared Volume

The cluster uses a shared volume defined in `docker-compose`. Docker allows to create volumes which can be used by multiple instances to upload files to. Reading, extracting and analysing the files is done in the PDS+OWSAP-Zap container.

The cluster consists of a PostgreSQL database, a Nginx loadbalancer and one or more PDS server.

image::cluster_shared_volume.svg[Components of cluster with shared volume]

===== Setup Script

Starting several PDS + OWSAP-Zap instances:

----
./50-start-multiple-docker-compose.sh <replicas>
----

Example of starting 3 PDS + OWSAP-Zap instances:

----
./50-start-multiple-docker-compose.sh 3
----

==== Object Storage

The cluster uses an object storage to store files. The cluster uses https://github.com/chrislusf/seaweedfs[SeaweedFS] (S3 compatible) to store files. The PDS instance(s) use the object storage to upload files to. Reading, extracting and analysing the files is done in the PDS+OWASP-ZAP container.

The cluster consists of a PostgreSQL database, a Nginx loadbalancer, a SeaweedFS object storage and one or more PDS server.

image::cluster_object_storage.svg[Components of cluster with object storage]

===== Setup Script

Starting several PDS + OWASP-Zap instances

----
./51-start-multiple-object-storage-docker-compose.sh <replicas>
----

Example of starting 3 PDS + OWSAP-Zap instances

----
./51-start-multiple-object-storage-docker-compose.sh 3
----

=== Change the Configuration

There are several configuration options available for the PDS+OWSAP-Zap `docker-compose` files. Have a look at `env-example` for more details.

=== Troubleshooting

This section contains information about how to troubleshoot PDS+OWSAP-Zap if something goes wrong.

==== Access the container

----
docker exec -it pds-owaspzap-debian bash
----

==== Java Application Remote Debugging of PDS

. Set `JAVA_ENABLE_DEBUG=true` in the `.env` file

. Connect via remote debugging to the `pds`
+
connect via CLI
+
----
jdb -attach localhost:15024
----
+
TIP: https://www.baeldung.com/java-application-remote-debugging[Java Application Remote Debugging] and https://www.tutorialspoint.com/jdb/jdb_basic_commands.htm[JDB - Basic Commands]
+
or connect via IDE (e. g. Eclipse IDE, VSCodium, Eclipse Theia, IntelliJ etc.).
+
TIP: https://www.eclipse.org/community/eclipse_newsletter/2017/june/article1.php[Debugging the Eclipse IDE for Java Developers]

== Build Image and Push to Registry

Build container images and push them to registry to run PDS+OWSAP-Zap on virtual machines, Kubernetes or any other distributed system.

=== Build Image

Build the container image.

. Using the default image:
+
----
./10-create-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap v0.1
----

. Using your own base image:
+
----
./10-create-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap v0.1 "my.registry.example.org/debian:12-slim"
----

=== Push Image to Registry

Push the container image to a registry.

* Push the version tag only
+
----
./20-push-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap v0.1
----

* Push the version and `latest` tags
+
----
./20-push-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap v0.1 yes
----

== Kubernetes

https://kubernetes.io/[Kubernetes] is an open-source container-orchestration system. This sections explains how to deploy and run PDS+OWSAP-Zap in Kubernetes.

=== Helm

https://helm.sh/[Helm] is a package manager for Kubernetes.

==== Requierments

* https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/[Helm] installed
* `pds_owasp_zap` image pushed to registry

==== Installation

. Create a `myvalues.yaml` configuration file
+
A minimal example configuration file with one instance:
+
[source,yaml]
----
replicaCount: 1

image:
   registry: my.registry.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap
   tag: latest

pds:
   startMode: localserver

owaspZap:
    apiKey: <my-apikey>

users:
   admin:
      id: "admin"
      apiToken: "{noop}<my-admin-password>"
   technical:
      id: "techuser"
      apiToken: "{noop}<my-technical-password>"

storage:
    local:
        enabled: true

networkPolicy:
    enabled: true
    ingress:
    - from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
                name: sechub-server
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
                name: sechub-adminserver
----
+
[TIP]
To generate passwords use `tr -dc A-Za-z0-9 </dev/urandom | head -c 18 ; echo ''`, `openssl rand -base64 15`, `apg -MSNCL -m 15 -x 20` or `shuf -zer -n20  {A..Z} {a..z} {0..9}`.

. Install helm package from file system
+
----
helm install --values myvalues.yaml pds-owaspzap helm/pds-owaspzap/
----
+
[TIP]
Use `helm --namespace <my-namespace> install…` to install the helm chart into another namespace in the Kubernetes cluster.

. List pods
+
----
kubectl get pods
NAME                                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f                    1/1     Running   0          75s
----

. Forward port of one of the pods to own machine
+
----
kubectl port-forward pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f 8444:8444
----

. Scan as explained in the <<scan,scan>> section.

==== Upgrade

In case, `my-values.yaml` was changed. Simply, use `helm upgrade` to update the deployment. `helm` will handle scaling up and down as well as changing the configuration.

----
helm upgrade --values my-values.yaml pds-owaspzap helm/pds-owaspzap/
----

==== Uninstall

. Helm list
+
----
helm list
NAME                          	NAMESPACE 	    REVISION	UPDATED                                 	STATUS  	CHART                          	APP VERSION
pds-owaspzap                 	my-namespace	1       	2021-11-05 18:42:23.613991303 +0100 CET 	deployed	pds-owaspzap-0.1.0            	0.24.0
----

. Helm uninstall
+
----
helm uninstall pds-owaspzap
----

=== Troubleshooting

* Access deployment events.
+
----
kubectl describe pod pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f
…
Events:
  Type    Reason     Age    From               Message
  ----    ------     ----   ----               -------
  Normal  Scheduled  6m52s  default-scheduler  Successfully assigned sechub-zap/pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f to c06p043-md-cc8c675cb-bqtpb
  Normal  Pulling    6m52s  kubelet            Pulling image "my.registry.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap:latest"
  Normal  Pulled     6m31s  kubelet            Successfully pulled image "my.registry.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap:latest" in 21.303104727s
  Normal  Created    6m30s  kubelet            Created container pds-owaspzap
  Normal  Started    6m30s  kubelet            Started container pds-owaspzap
----

* Access container logs.
+
----
kubectl logs pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f

  .   ____          _            __ _ _
 /\\ / ___'_ __ _ _(_)_ __  __ _ \ \ \ \
( ( )\___ | '_ | '_| | '_ \/ _` | \ \ \ \
 \\/  ___)| |_)| | | | | || (_| |  ) ) ) )
  '  |____| .__|_| |_|_| |_\__, | / / / /
 =========|_|==============|___/=/_/_/_/
 :: Spring Boot ::                (v2.5.2)

2021-11-05 17:42:47.697  INFO 7 --- [           main] d.s.p.ProductDelegationServerApplication : Starting ProductDelegationServerApplication using Java 11.0.11 on pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f with PID 7 (/pds/sechub-pds-0.24.0.jar started by zap in /workspace)
2021-11-05 17:42:47.702  INFO 7 --- [           main] d.s.p.ProductDelegationServerApplication : The following profiles are active: pds_localserver
2021-11-05 17:42:53.054  WARN 7 --- [           main] o.apache.tomcat.util.net.SSLHostConfig   : The protocol [TLSv1.3] was added to the list of protocols on the SSLHostConfig named [_default_]. Check if a +/- prefix is missing.
2021-11-05 17:42:53.131  INFO 7 --- [           main] o.apache.catalina.core.StandardService   : Starting service [Tomcat]
2021-11-05 17:42:53.132  INFO 7 --- [           main] org.apache.catalina.core.StandardEngine  : Starting Servlet engine: [Apache Tomcat/9.0.48]
2021-11-05 17:42:53.195  INFO 7 --- [           main] o.a.c.c.C.[Tomcat].[localhost].[/]       : Initializing Spring embedded WebApplicationContext
2021-11-05 17:42:53.498  INFO 7 --- [           main] com.zaxxer.hikari.HikariDataSource       : HikariPool-1 - Starting...
2021-11-05 17:42:53.776  INFO 7 --- [           main] com.zaxxer.hikari.HikariDataSource       : HikariPool-1 - Start completed.
2021-11-05 17:42:56.333  INFO 7 --- [           main] .s.s.AbstractSharedVolumePropertiesSetup : Using /shared_volumes/uploads as shared volume directory for uploads
2021-11-05 17:42:56.333  INFO 7 --- [           main] .s.s.AbstractSharedVolumePropertiesSetup : Upload directory set to:/shared_volumes/uploads
2021-11-05 17:42:56.334  INFO 7 --- [           main] c.d.s.p.storage.PDSMultiStorageService   : Created storage factory: SharedVolumeJobStorageFactory
2021-11-05 17:42:56.349  INFO 7 --- [           main] c.d.s.p.m.PDSHeartBeatTriggerService     : Heartbeat service created with 1000 millisecondss initial delay and 60000 millisecondss as fixed delay
2021-11-05 17:42:56.500  INFO 7 --- [           main] c.d.s.pds.batch.PDSBatchTriggerService   : Scheduler service created with 100 millisecondss initial delay and 500 millisecondss as fixed delay
2021-11-05 17:42:58.375  INFO 7 --- [           main] d.s.p.ProductDelegationServerApplication : Started ProductDelegationServerApplication in 13.2 seconds (JVM running for 14.465)
2021-11-05 17:42:59.394  INFO 7 --- [   scheduling-1] c.d.s.p.m.PDSHeartBeatTriggerService     : Heartbeat will be initialized
2021-11-05 17:42:59.394  INFO 7 --- [   scheduling-1] c.d.s.p.m.PDSHeartBeatTriggerService     : Create new server hearbeat
2021-11-05 17:42:59.467  INFO 7 --- [   scheduling-1] c.d.s.p.m.PDSHeartBeatTriggerService     : heartbeat update - serverid:OWASP_ZAP_CLUSTER, heartbeatuuid:d6b06e92-e3e6-4f39-aefb-eb70fee49ce7, cluster-member-data:{"hostname":"pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f","ip":"192.168.128.4","port":8444,"heartBeatTimestamp":"2021-11-05T17:42:59.395871","executionState":{"queueMax":50,"jobsInQueue":0,"entries":[]}}
----

Commit message:

Support PAC file in wrapper and pds solution #3834
- add PAC file support from templates
- update test cases
- improve session handling by omitting not necessary settings
  and introduce default logout patterns to make logouts
  during scan less likely

sechub-pds-solutions/owaspzap/README.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

:toc:

= OWASP ZAP + PDS

https://www.zaproxy.org/[OWASP ZAP] is a free and open source dynamic application security testing tool. By combining OWASP ZAP with the SecHub https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/sechub-product-delegation-server.html[Product Delegation Server (PDS)] in a container, OWASP ZAP can be used with SecHub.

Furthermore, the combination of OWASP ZAP and PDS make it possible to run both inside a Kubernetes cluser or virtual machines.

This folder contains the necessary scripts to run OWASP ZAP+PDS inside a container locally. Additionally, it contains scripts to build and push the OWASP ZAP+PDS container to your container registry and a Helm chart to install and run OWASP ZAP+PDS in a Kubernetes cluster.

== Script authentication using templates and assets
This PDS solution supports templates for web scan login.

With templates it is very easy to handle complex authentication scenarios (e.g. a corporate MFA login). Please read the [technical documentation](https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/sechub-techdoc.html) for details about templates and assets.

TIP: Templates are not mandatory. If you only need Basic Auth or custom headers template definitions and usage are not necessary.

To start a scan this pds-solution executes the script link:docker/scripts/owasp-zap.sh[owasp-zap.sh].
SecHub will automatically create the directory `$PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_ASSETS_FOLDER`. The shell script requires a file called `script.groovy` inside the directory for script authentication with templates and assets to work. This script performs the authentication steps necessary for the targeted application.
When creating a template with an asset for webscan authentication and assigning it to a SecHub project, ensure that 

- `PDS_OWASP_ZAP.zip` is available as asset file inside the used asset
- `PDS_OWASP_ZAP.zip` contains `script.groovy` at root level
- optionally `PDS_OWASP_ZAP.zip` can contain `proxy.pac` at root level for dynamic proxy handling during authentication

The PDS will extract the file at runtime to `$PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_ASSETS_FOLDER/webscan-login/script.groovy` and `$PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_ASSETS_FOLDER/webscan-login/proxy.pac`.
If the extracted file `$PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_ASSETS_FOLDER/webscan-login/script.groovy` exists by the time the script `owasp-zap.sh` is executed, the groovy script will be used for automated login.
If the extracted file `$PDS_JOB_EXTRACTED_ASSETS_FOLDER/webscan-login/proxy.pac` exists by the time the script `owasp-zap.sh` is executed, the PAC file will be used by the browser during the authentication.
Details about the configuration of the wrapper application that is used to configure the ZAP, can be found at link:https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/blob/develop/sechub-wrapper-owasp-zap/README.adoc[https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/blob/develop/sechub-wrapper-owasp-zap/README.adoc].

=== Script authentication template data variables
For a webscan script authentication with this pds-solution, template data with the following variables are required:

- `username`
- `password`

These variables are used for the credential data of the scan user. The `username` can be used for any type of user identification like email address, user ID, user name etc.
If TOTP is required make sure to use the dedicated entry inside the webscan authentication section of the sechub configuration JSON.

== Run Locally

This is the easiest way to get started.

=== Requirements

Docker and Docker-Compose need to be installed:

. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/[Install Docker]

. Linux: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/#manage-docker-as-a-non-root-user[Run docker as non Root user]

. https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Install Docker-Compose]

=== Single Instance

Start a single instance either by using the Bash wrapper script which does setup everything <<automatic-setup,automatically>> or follow the steps <<manual-setup,manually>>.

[[automatic-setup]]
==== Automatic Setup

The folder contains a start script which does the setup steps for you:

----
./01-start-docker-compose.sh
----

==== Together with SecHub

The container will be started and attached to the `sechub` Network.

IMPORTANT: Make sure the SecHub container is running.

. Start Debian container:
+
----
./05-start-single-sechub-network-docker-compose.sh
----

[[scan]]
=== Scan

The steps required to scan with the PDS.

==== Scan Script

WARNING: Scan only targets you have permission to scan.

. Set the environment variables
+
----
export PDS_SERVER=https://<pds-host>:<port>
export PDS_USERID=admin
export PDS_APITOKEN="<pds-admin-apitoken>"
export PDS_PRODUCT_IDENTFIER=PDS_OWASP_ZAP
----
+
For example:
+
----
export PDS_SERVER=https://localhost:8444
export PDS_USERID=admin
export PDS_APITOKEN="pds-apitoken"
export PDS_PRODUCT_IDENTFIER=PDS_OWASP_ZAP
----
+
[NOTE]
Those values are the default values from `env-initial` and `env-cluster-initial` files. In case you run PDS+OWSAP-Zap in Kubernetes or other environments those values will be different.

. Scan by providing a `target-url` or a `path-to-json-config`.
+
----
./70-test-webscan.sh <target-url or path-to-json-config-file>
----
+
For example:
+
----
./70-test.sh https://my.juiceshop.org
----
+
or
+
----
./70-test.sh my-scan-config.json
----
+
.my-scan-config.json
[source,json]
----
{
    "apiVersion" : "1.0",
    "sechubJobUUID": "288607bf-ac81-4088-842c-005d5702a9e9",
    "productId": "PDS_OWASP_ZAP",
    "parameters": [
        {
            "key" : "pds.scan.target.url",
            "value" : "https://my.juiceshop.org"
        },
        {
            "key" : "zap.activescan.enabled",
            "value" : true
        },
        {
            "key" : "zap.ajaxcrawler.enabled",
            "value" : true
        }
    ]
}
----

=== Cluster

The cluster is created locally via `docker-compose`.

==== Shared Volume

The cluster uses a shared volume defined in `docker-compose`. Docker allows to create volumes which can be used by multiple instances to upload files to. Reading, extracting and analysing the files is done in the PDS+OWSAP-Zap container.

The cluster consists of a PostgreSQL database, a Nginx loadbalancer and one or more PDS server.

image::cluster_shared_volume.svg[Components of cluster with shared volume]

===== Setup Script

Starting several PDS + OWSAP-Zap instances:

----
./50-start-multiple-docker-compose.sh <replicas>
----

Example of starting 3 PDS + OWSAP-Zap instances:

----
./50-start-multiple-docker-compose.sh 3
----

==== Object Storage

The cluster uses an object storage to store files. The cluster uses https://github.com/chrislusf/seaweedfs[SeaweedFS] (S3 compatible) to store files. The PDS instance(s) use the object storage to upload files to. Reading, extracting and analysing the files is done in the PDS+OWASP-ZAP container.

The cluster consists of a PostgreSQL database, a Nginx loadbalancer, a SeaweedFS object storage and one or more PDS server.

image::cluster_object_storage.svg[Components of cluster with object storage]

===== Setup Script

Starting several PDS + OWASP-Zap instances

----
./51-start-multiple-object-storage-docker-compose.sh <replicas>
----

Example of starting 3 PDS + OWSAP-Zap instances

----
./51-start-multiple-object-storage-docker-compose.sh 3
----

=== Change the Configuration

There are several configuration options available for the PDS+OWSAP-Zap `docker-compose` files. Have a look at `env-example` for more details.

=== Troubleshooting

This section contains information about how to troubleshoot PDS+OWSAP-Zap if something goes wrong.

==== Access the container

----
docker exec -it pds-owaspzap-debian bash
----

==== Java Application Remote Debugging of PDS

. Set `JAVA_ENABLE_DEBUG=true` in the `.env` file

. Connect via remote debugging to the `pds`
+
connect via CLI
+
----
jdb -attach localhost:15024
----
+
TIP: https://www.baeldung.com/java-application-remote-debugging[Java Application Remote Debugging] and https://www.tutorialspoint.com/jdb/jdb_basic_commands.htm[JDB - Basic Commands]
+
or connect via IDE (e. g. Eclipse IDE, VSCodium, Eclipse Theia, IntelliJ etc.).
+
TIP: https://www.eclipse.org/community/eclipse_newsletter/2017/june/article1.php[Debugging the Eclipse IDE for Java Developers]

== Build Image and Push to Registry

Build container images and push them to registry to run PDS+OWSAP-Zap on virtual machines, Kubernetes or any other distributed system.

=== Build Image

Build the container image.

. Using the default image:
+
----
./10-create-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap v0.1
----

. Using your own base image:
+
----
./10-create-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap v0.1 "my.registry.example.org/debian:12-slim"
----

=== Push Image to Registry

Push the container image to a registry.

* Push the version tag only
+
----
./20-push-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap v0.1
----

* Push the version and `latest` tags
+
----
./20-push-image.sh my.registry.example.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap v0.1 yes
----

== Kubernetes

https://kubernetes.io/[Kubernetes] is an open-source container-orchestration system. This sections explains how to deploy and run PDS+OWSAP-Zap in Kubernetes.

=== Helm

https://helm.sh/[Helm] is a package manager for Kubernetes.

==== Requierments

* https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/[Helm] installed
* `pds_owasp_zap` image pushed to registry

==== Installation

. Create a `myvalues.yaml` configuration file
+
A minimal example configuration file with one instance:
+
[source,yaml]
----
replicaCount: 1

image:
   registry: my.registry.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap
   tag: latest

pds:
   startMode: localserver

owaspZap:
    apiKey: <my-apikey>

users:
   admin:
      id: "admin"
      apiToken: "{noop}<my-admin-password>"
   technical:
      id: "techuser"
      apiToken: "{noop}<my-technical-password>"

storage:
    local:
        enabled: true

networkPolicy:
    enabled: true
    ingress:
    - from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
                name: sechub-server
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
                name: sechub-adminserver
----
+
[TIP]
To generate passwords use `tr -dc A-Za-z0-9 </dev/urandom | head -c 18 ; echo ''`, `openssl rand -base64 15`, `apg -MSNCL -m 15 -x 20` or `shuf -zer -n20  {A..Z} {a..z} {0..9}`.

. Install helm package from file system
+
----
helm install --values myvalues.yaml pds-owaspzap helm/pds-owaspzap/
----
+
[TIP]
Use `helm --namespace <my-namespace> install…` to install the helm chart into another namespace in the Kubernetes cluster.

. List pods
+
----
kubectl get pods
NAME                                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f                    1/1     Running   0          75s
----

. Forward port of one of the pods to own machine
+
----
kubectl port-forward pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f 8444:8444
----

. Scan as explained in the <<scan,scan>> section.

==== Upgrade

In case, `my-values.yaml` was changed. Simply, use `helm upgrade` to update the deployment. `helm` will handle scaling up and down as well as changing the configuration.

----
helm upgrade --values my-values.yaml pds-owaspzap helm/pds-owaspzap/
----

==== Uninstall

. Helm list
+
----
helm list
NAME                          	NAMESPACE 	    REVISION	UPDATED                                 	STATUS  	CHART                          	APP VERSION
pds-owaspzap                 	my-namespace	1       	2021-11-05 18:42:23.613991303 +0100 CET 	deployed	pds-owaspzap-0.1.0            	0.24.0
----

. Helm uninstall
+
----
helm uninstall pds-owaspzap
----

=== Troubleshooting

* Access deployment events.
+
----
kubectl describe pod pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f
…
Events:
  Type    Reason     Age    From               Message
  ----    ------     ----   ----               -------
  Normal  Scheduled  6m52s  default-scheduler  Successfully assigned sechub-zap/pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f to c06p043-md-cc8c675cb-bqtpb
  Normal  Pulling    6m52s  kubelet            Pulling image "my.registry.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap:latest"
  Normal  Pulled     6m31s  kubelet            Successfully pulled image "my.registry.org/sechub/pds_owasp_zap:latest" in 21.303104727s
  Normal  Created    6m30s  kubelet            Created container pds-owaspzap
  Normal  Started    6m30s  kubelet            Started container pds-owaspzap
----

* Access container logs.
+
----
kubectl logs pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f

  .   ____          _            __ _ _
 /\\ / ___'_ __ _ _(_)_ __  __ _ \ \ \ \
( ( )\___ | '_ | '_| | '_ \/ _` | \ \ \ \
 \\/  ___)| |_)| | | | | || (_| |  ) ) ) )
  '  |____| .__|_| |_|_| |_\__, | / / / /
 =========|_|==============|___/=/_/_/_/
 :: Spring Boot ::                (v2.5.2)

2021-11-05 17:42:47.697  INFO 7 --- [           main] d.s.p.ProductDelegationServerApplication : Starting ProductDelegationServerApplication using Java 11.0.11 on pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f with PID 7 (/pds/sechub-pds-0.24.0.jar started by zap in /workspace)
2021-11-05 17:42:47.702  INFO 7 --- [           main] d.s.p.ProductDelegationServerApplication : The following profiles are active: pds_localserver
2021-11-05 17:42:53.054  WARN 7 --- [           main] o.apache.tomcat.util.net.SSLHostConfig   : The protocol [TLSv1.3] was added to the list of protocols on the SSLHostConfig named [_default_]. Check if a +/- prefix is missing.
2021-11-05 17:42:53.131  INFO 7 --- [           main] o.apache.catalina.core.StandardService   : Starting service [Tomcat]
2021-11-05 17:42:53.132  INFO 7 --- [           main] org.apache.catalina.core.StandardEngine  : Starting Servlet engine: [Apache Tomcat/9.0.48]
2021-11-05 17:42:53.195  INFO 7 --- [           main] o.a.c.c.C.[Tomcat].[localhost].[/]       : Initializing Spring embedded WebApplicationContext
2021-11-05 17:42:53.498  INFO 7 --- [           main] com.zaxxer.hikari.HikariDataSource       : HikariPool-1 - Starting...
2021-11-05 17:42:53.776  INFO 7 --- [           main] com.zaxxer.hikari.HikariDataSource       : HikariPool-1 - Start completed.
2021-11-05 17:42:56.333  INFO 7 --- [           main] .s.s.AbstractSharedVolumePropertiesSetup : Using /shared_volumes/uploads as shared volume directory for uploads
2021-11-05 17:42:56.333  INFO 7 --- [           main] .s.s.AbstractSharedVolumePropertiesSetup : Upload directory set to:/shared_volumes/uploads
2021-11-05 17:42:56.334  INFO 7 --- [           main] c.d.s.p.storage.PDSMultiStorageService   : Created storage factory: SharedVolumeJobStorageFactory
2021-11-05 17:42:56.349  INFO 7 --- [           main] c.d.s.p.m.PDSHeartBeatTriggerService     : Heartbeat service created with 1000 millisecondss initial delay and 60000 millisecondss as fixed delay
2021-11-05 17:42:56.500  INFO 7 --- [           main] c.d.s.pds.batch.PDSBatchTriggerService   : Scheduler service created with 100 millisecondss initial delay and 500 millisecondss as fixed delay
2021-11-05 17:42:58.375  INFO 7 --- [           main] d.s.p.ProductDelegationServerApplication : Started ProductDelegationServerApplication in 13.2 seconds (JVM running for 14.465)
2021-11-05 17:42:59.394  INFO 7 --- [   scheduling-1] c.d.s.p.m.PDSHeartBeatTriggerService     : Heartbeat will be initialized
2021-11-05 17:42:59.394  INFO 7 --- [   scheduling-1] c.d.s.p.m.PDSHeartBeatTriggerService     : Create new server hearbeat
2021-11-05 17:42:59.467  INFO 7 --- [   scheduling-1] c.d.s.p.m.PDSHeartBeatTriggerService     : heartbeat update - serverid:OWASP_ZAP_CLUSTER, heartbeatuuid:d6b06e92-e3e6-4f39-aefb-eb70fee49ce7, cluster-member-data:{"hostname":"pds-owaspzap-759ffc8dfb-8jj8f","ip":"192.168.128.4","port":8444,"heartBeatTimestamp":"2021-11-05T17:42:59.395871","executionState":{"queueMax":50,"jobsInQueue":0,"entries":[]}}
----
