sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/sechub-getting-started.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

include::documents/gen/server-version.adoc[]

include::documents/config.adoc[]

= image:sechub-logo.png[sechub] SecHub Getting Started Guide

include::documents/shared/about_sechub.adoc[]

include::documents/shared/about_documentation_all.adoc[]

//--

== Introduction
This tutorial teaches you how to setup a SecHub environment and to do a scan using SecHub.

You will learn:

* How to start a SecHub environment and PDS with a SAST scanner using SecHub's Helm charts and container images
* Scan vulnerable source code.
* Install and use SecHub's extension for VsCodium (Optional)

plantuml::diagrams/diagram_behind_the_scenes_sechub.plantuml[format=svg, title="Setup Overview"]

This Diagram roughly explains how SecHub functions, behind the scenes.

The SecHub server is responsible for taking jobs and passing them to one or more PDS for processing. Once the job finishes on the PDS side, they are fetched and processed by SecHub.

[NOTE]
--
This tutorial is tested on Debian/Ubuntu! +
It should also work on different Linux distributions.
--

== Prerequisites

You are going to need: 

=== Tools
* git
* jq
* https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/[kubectl]
* https://helm.sh[helm]
* https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/releases[SecHub Client]
  (On Debian you can use the https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/releases?q=%22client+version%22&expanded=true[SecHub Client OS package] for your architecture.)

TIP: See [Appendix] below for installing the SecHub client manually.

Optional:

* https://vscodium.com/[VSCodium]
* https://open-vsx.org/extension/mercedes-benz/sechub[SecHub Extension] for VSCodium

=== Access to a Kubernetes
For local testing you could use https://k3s.io[K3s], https://kind.sigs.k8s.io[Kind] with https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cloud-provider-kind[cloud-provider-kind], Minikube, Docker Desktop, ... The SecHub team uses K3s for development.

Create a Kube config file for access to your Kubernetes and point the environment variable `KUBECONFIG` to it. +
Example: +
`export KUBECONFIG="$HOME/.kube/k3s-config"``

In your terminal type:
 `kubectl get ns` to verify the connectivity.
 This should list the namespaces of your Kubernetes cluster.

== Run SecHub
After issuing below commands, a new namespace "sechub-testing" will be created in your Kubernetes.
Everything outside this namespace will be left untouched.

=== Clone the repository

In your terminal type:

[source, shell]
--
git clone https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub.git
cd sechub
--
This makes a local copy of the SecHub project on your computer and goes to the project's folder


=== Start SecHub environment and create a basic setup

[source, shell]
--
cd sechub-solutions-shared/setup-with-kubernetes
./00_prepare_build.sh
./01_init.sh
./10_deploy_sechub_server.sh
./20_deploy_pds-multi.sh
./30_deploy_web-ui.sh
./40_apply-profiles.sh
--

This starts the SecHub server and a PDS with a SAST scanner. +
Additionally scan profiles are created. We will use one of them later.

=== Setup a project in SecHub

The following call will create a SecHub project named "demo" and assigns the scan profile "sast-python" to it:

[source, shell]
--
./50_create_SecHub_project.sh demo sast-python
--

Now you are ready to do scans!


== Scan using SecHub Client

=== Environment vaiables
Some environment variables have to be set. Specifically `SECHUB_SERVER`, `SECHUB_USERID`, `SECHUB_APITOKEN`, `SECHUB_TRUSTALL`. Make sure that the SecHub client executable "sechub" is in the PATH.

[source, shell]
--
SECHUB_IP_ADDRESS=$(kubectl --namespace=sechub-testing get svc/sechub-server -o=jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
export SECHUB_SERVER=https://$SECHUB_IP_ADDRESS:8443
export SECHUB_USERID=sechubadm
export SECHUB_APITOKEN=demo
export SECHUB_TRUSTALL=true
--

=== Scan

We have prepared a mini-example with vulnerabe Python code in the "demo" folder.

Please have a look at the `sechub.json`. Here it is defined what should be scanned, and what should be skipped.

Now you can do a scan:

[source, shell]
--
cd demo
sechub scan
--

This will run a SAST scan via SecHub and create a file which contains a report of the findings from the scan (JSON format). +
If you want the report in HTML format instead, add `-reportformat html` as an option:
[source, shell]
--
sechub -reportformat html scan
--

=== SecHub Web-UI
The URL of the SecHub Web-UI can be retrieved like this:
[source, shell]
--
WEB_UI_IP=$(kubectl --namespace=sechub-testing get svc/web-ui -o=jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
WEB_UI_URL="https://$WEB_UI_IP:4443/"
echo $WEB_UI_URL
--

NOTE: After successful login with sechubadm / demo you must open the URL manually. Then the SecHub Web-UI should work.

== Optional
=== SecHub's IDE plugins
SecHub's IDE plugins help you to work faster with the SecHub report.
You can jump to the exact code lines and fix the problem.

==== Eclipse Plugin
You can get the SecHub plugin the usual way from the https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/sechub[Eclipse Marketplace].

==== IntelliJ Plugin
You can get the SecHub plugin the usual way from the https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/23379-sechub[IntelliJ Marketplace].

==== VS-Codium / Visual Studio Code Plugin
You can get the plugin from the https://open-vsx.org/extension/mercedes-benz/sechub[OpenVSX Registry].

To install it, search for `sechub` in the Extensions manager and choose the one from "mercedes-benz".

For Visual Studio Code users: Download the Plugin and install it manually from file.

== Appendix
=== Installing the SecHub Client maually
The command below, will download the latest version and put it in your `/usr/local/bin` folder.

[source, bash]
--
# Get latest version
CLIENT_VERSION=`curl -s https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/client-download.html | grep https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/ | awk -F '-' '{print $NF}' | sed 's/.zip">//'`

# Download the zipped binary
wget https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/releases/download/v$CLIENT_VERSION-client/sechub-cli-$CLIENT_VERSION.zip

# Verify the binary
wget https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/releases/download/v$CLIENT_VERSION-client/sechub-cli-$CLIENT_VERSION.zip.sha256
sha256sum --check sechub-cli-$CLIENT_VERSION.zip.sha256

# Extract 
unzip sechub-cli-$CLIENT_VERSION.zip

# Depending on your architecture and OS, you will have to copy a different binary file:
# Example for Linux x86-64
sudo cp platform/linux-amd64/sechub /usr/local/bin

# Cleanup
rm -rf sechub-cli-$CLIENT_VERSION.zip sechub-cli-$CLIENT_VERSION.zip.sha256 platform/
--

Commit message:

recommend Kind instead of K3s #4221
because of strange problems with port 8443

sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/sechub-getting-started.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

include::documents/gen/server-version.adoc[]

include::documents/config.adoc[]

= image:sechub-logo.png[sechub] SecHub Getting Started Guide

include::documents/shared/about_sechub.adoc[]

include::documents/shared/about_documentation_all.adoc[]

//--

== Introduction
This tutorial teaches you how to setup a SecHub environment and to do a scan using SecHub.

You will learn:

* How to start a SecHub environment and PDS with a SAST scanner using SecHub's Helm charts and container images
* Scan vulnerable source code.
* Install and use SecHub's extension for VsCodium (Optional)

plantuml::diagrams/diagram_behind_the_scenes_sechub.plantuml[format=svg, title="Setup Overview"]

This Diagram roughly explains how SecHub functions, behind the scenes.

The SecHub server is responsible for taking jobs and passing them to one or more PDS for processing. Once the job finishes on the PDS side, they are fetched and processed by SecHub.

[NOTE]
--
This tutorial is tested on Debian/Ubuntu! +
It should also work on different Linux distributions.
--

== Prerequisites

You are going to need: 

=== Tools
* git
* jq
* https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/[kubectl]
* https://helm.sh[helm]
* https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/releases[SecHub Client]
  (On Debian you can use the https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/releases?q=%22client+version%22&expanded=true[SecHub Client OS package] for your architecture.)

TIP: See [Appendix] below for installing the SecHub client manually.

Optional:

* https://vscodium.com/[VSCodium]
* https://open-vsx.org/extension/mercedes-benz/sechub[SecHub Extension] for VSCodium

=== Access to a Kubernetes
For local testing you could use https://kind.sigs.k8s.io[Kind] with https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cloud-provider-kind[cloud-provider-kind], Minikube, Docker Desktop, https://k3s.io[K3s] ...

NOTE: The SecHub team uses **https://kind.sigs.k8s.io[Kind]** for development +
      and experienced port problems with K3s.

Create a Kube config file for access to your Kubernetes and point the environment variable `KUBECONFIG` to it. +
Example: +
`export KUBECONFIG="$HOME/.kube/kind-config"``

In your terminal type:
 `kubectl get ns` to verify the connectivity.
 This should list the namespaces of your Kubernetes cluster.

== Run SecHub
After issuing below commands, a new namespace "sechub-testing" will be created in your Kubernetes.
Everything outside this namespace will be left untouched.

=== Clone the repository

In your terminal type:

[source, shell]
--
git clone https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub.git
cd sechub
--
This makes a local copy of the SecHub project on your computer and goes to the project's folder


=== Start SecHub environment and create a basic setup

[source, shell]
--
cd sechub-solutions-shared/setup-with-kubernetes
./00_prepare_build.sh
./01_init.sh
./10_deploy_sechub_server.sh
./20_deploy_pds-multi.sh
./30_deploy_web-ui.sh
./40_apply-profiles.sh
--

This starts the SecHub server and a PDS with a SAST scanner. +
Additionally scan profiles are created. We will use one of them later.

=== Setup a project in SecHub

The following call will create a SecHub project named "demo" and assigns the scan profile "sast-python" to it:

[source, shell]
--
./50_create_SecHub_project.sh demo sast-python
--

Now you are ready to do scans!


== Scan using SecHub Client

=== Environment vaiables
Some environment variables have to be set. Specifically `SECHUB_SERVER`, `SECHUB_USERID`, `SECHUB_APITOKEN`, `SECHUB_TRUSTALL`. Make sure that the SecHub client executable "sechub" is in the PATH.

[source, shell]
--
SECHUB_IP_ADDRESS=$(kubectl --namespace=sechub-testing get svc/sechub-server -o=jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
export SECHUB_SERVER=https://$SECHUB_IP_ADDRESS:8443
export SECHUB_USERID=sechubadm
export SECHUB_APITOKEN=demo
export SECHUB_TRUSTALL=true
--

=== Scan

We have prepared a mini-example with vulnerabe Python code in the "demo" folder.

Please have a look at the `sechub.json`. Here it is defined what should be scanned, and what should be skipped.

Now you can do a scan:

[source, shell]
--
cd demo
sechub scan
--

This will run a SAST scan via SecHub and create a file which contains a report of the findings from the scan (JSON format). +
If you want the report in HTML format instead, add `-reportformat html` as an option:
[source, shell]
--
sechub -reportformat html scan
--

=== SecHub Web-UI
The URL of the SecHub Web-UI can be retrieved like this:
[source, shell]
--
WEB_UI_IP=$(kubectl --namespace=sechub-testing get svc/web-ui -o=jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
WEB_UI_URL="https://$WEB_UI_IP:4443/"
echo $WEB_UI_URL
--

NOTE: After successful login with sechubadm / demo you must open the URL manually. Then the SecHub Web-UI should work.

== Optional
=== SecHub's IDE plugins
SecHub's IDE plugins help you to work faster with the SecHub report.
You can jump to the exact code lines and fix the problem.

==== Eclipse Plugin
You can get the SecHub plugin the usual way from the https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/sechub[Eclipse Marketplace].

==== IntelliJ Plugin
You can get the SecHub plugin the usual way from the https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/23379-sechub[IntelliJ Marketplace].

==== VS-Codium / Visual Studio Code Plugin
You can get the plugin from the https://open-vsx.org/extension/mercedes-benz/sechub[OpenVSX Registry].

To install it, search for `sechub` in the Extensions manager and choose the one from "mercedes-benz".

For Visual Studio Code users: Download the Plugin and install it manually from file.

== Appendix
=== Installing the SecHub Client maually
The command below, will download the latest version and put it in your `/usr/local/bin` folder.

[source, bash]
--
# Get latest version
CLIENT_VERSION=`curl -s https://mercedes-benz.github.io/sechub/latest/client-download.html | grep https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/ | awk -F '-' '{print $NF}' | sed 's/.zip">//'`

# Download the zipped binary
wget https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/releases/download/v$CLIENT_VERSION-client/sechub-cli-$CLIENT_VERSION.zip

# Verify the binary
wget https://github.com/mercedes-benz/sechub/releases/download/v$CLIENT_VERSION-client/sechub-cli-$CLIENT_VERSION.zip.sha256
sha256sum --check sechub-cli-$CLIENT_VERSION.zip.sha256

# Extract 
unzip sechub-cli-$CLIENT_VERSION.zip

# Depending on your architecture and OS, you will have to copy a different binary file:
# Example for Linux x86-64
sudo cp platform/linux-amd64/sechub /usr/local/bin

# Cleanup
rm -rf sechub-cli-$CLIENT_VERSION.zip sechub-cli-$CLIENT_VERSION.zip.sha256 platform/
--
