sechub-ide-plugin-jetbrains/src/docs/asciidoc/plugin-development.adoc, before:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
:imagesdir: ./images
:toc:
:toc-title: Table of contents
:toclevels: 5

= Plugin developer guide

== Preconditions

=== Setup
- Download IntelliJ 2023.3 community edition
- Installed Java >= 17 - e.g Eclipse Temurin (https://adoptium.net/temurin)
- Additionally install `Plugin DevKit` when you want to use DevKit parts (for theming)

image::install-plugin-devkit.png[]
[quote, 'As mentioned in https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/ide-development-instance.html[IDE develoment article]']
____
When using IntelliJ IDEA 2023.3 or later, the Plugin DevKit plugin must be installed from JetBrains Marketplace
(Plugin Homepage) as it is no longer bundled with the IDE.
____

=== Additional information
- You should read https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/ide-development-instance.html

=== Import SecHub IntelliJ plugin
- clone the git repository git@github.com:mercedes-benz/sechub-plugin-intellij.git
- open the repository as a project in IntelliJ

== Start the plugin in sandbox mode

=== Gradle variant
Open the gradle toolwindow and execute "Tasks->intellij->runIde"

Or execute `./gradlew runIde` from terminal.

== Development HowTos
=== IntelliJ Sources not available, only depcompiled
Open the IntelliJ class - now it is opened by the internal
decompiler. On the right top there is a button "Choose source".
Click on this. Now select the correct IntelliJ folder and search
for the correct subfolder (with a hash inside) - now select the source zip file for the installed/used version.

After this: **close** existing editor and open the class again.
Now you should the sources.

TIP: This comes very handy when you want to look for deprecated classes, e.g. inside `IconLoader`.

=== Intellij SDK Howtos
==== Tool windows
https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/tool-windows.html

Currently we do NOT implement https://github.com/JetBrains/intellij-community/blob/idea/233.11799.241/platform/core-api/src/com/intellij/openapi/project/DumbAware.java[DumbAware] in SecHub Toolwindow,
because we want to ensure that we can open

==== Check plugin and configuration

```
./gradlew verifyPluginConfiguration verifyPlugin
```

NOTE: See https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/tools-gradle-intellij-plugin.html#tasks-verifypluginconfiguration

==== Check compatibility with newer IDEs
You receive mails from the marketplace about compatibility information etc. when new versions of IntellIJ
are available.

You could check this locally as well:
```
./gradlew runPluginVerifier
```
WARNING: This takes **much** time and downloads many IntelliJ versions (needs much space)

=== UI guide lines
- https://jetbrains.design/intellij/components/tool_window/
- https://jetbrains.design/intellij/controls/balloon/

==== Content tabs
https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/tool-windows.html#contents-tabs

==== Icons
https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/icons.html

==== IntelliJ swing components
https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/misc-swing-components.html

==== Actions
https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/basic-action-system.html#building-ui-from-actions

== Deployment

===  Local deployment/installation
NOTE: for details look at https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/managing-plugins.html

Build the plugin locally by calling:
```
./gradlew clean buildPlugin
```
After build is done, start your test IDE installation - e.g. the current Android Studio.

Open IDE settings, search for plugins, click on gear icon and select
"Install plugins from disk". +
Inside the new opened file chooser select the zip file in `${plugin-repo-location}/build/distributions/`

TIP: You can download the current Android Studio from https://developer.android.com/studio


=== Publishing to Marketplace
NOTE: Please read https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/publishing-plugin.html for details.

==== Manual
Open https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/23379-sechub
and upload the plugin manually.

==== Automation
Here a helper script to prepare a signed plugin deployment:

[sourc,sh]
----
#!/bin/bash
echo "Preparing for SecHub intellij plugin deployment"
echo "----------------------------------------------------------------------------------"
export SECHUB_CERTIFICATE_LOCATION=~/.keystores/deployment-keystore-certificate.crt <1>
export SECHUB_CERTIFICATE_CHAIN=$(<$SECHUB_CERTIFICATE_LOCATION)
export SECHUB_PRIVATE_KEY_LOCATION=~/.keystores/your-private-deployment-key.pem <2>
export SECHUB_PRIVATE_KEY=$(<$SECHUB_PRIVATE_KEY_LOCATION)

stty_orig=$(stty -g)

stty -echo

read -p "Enter private key: " SECHUB_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD
export SECHUB_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD
echo "" # new line...
read -p "Enter intellij publish token:" SECHUB_INTELLIJ_PUBLISH_TOKEN
export SECHUB_INTELLIJ_PUBLISH_TOKEN
echo "" # new line ...

stty $stty_orig
echo "All prepared, you can now switch to plugin root folder and execute './gradlew clean buildPlugin publishPlugin''"

----
<1> Your cert file
<2> Your private key file

Commit message:

import java api client through gradle dependency management by using includeBuild in intellij plugin

sechub-ide-plugin-jetbrains/src/docs/asciidoc/plugin-development.adoc, after:

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
:imagesdir: ./images
:toc:
:toc-title: Table of contents
:toclevels: 5

= Plugin developer guide

== Preconditions

=== Setup
- Download IntelliJ 2023.3 community edition
- Installed Java >= 17 - e.g Eclipse Temurin (https://adoptium.net/temurin)
- Additionally install `Plugin DevKit` when you want to use DevKit parts (for theming)

image::install-plugin-devkit.png[]
[quote, 'As mentioned in https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/ide-development-instance.html[IDE develoment article]']
____
When using IntelliJ IDEA 2023.3 or later, the Plugin DevKit plugin must be installed from JetBrains Marketplace
(Plugin Homepage) as it is no longer bundled with the IDE.
____

=== Additional information
- You should read https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/ide-development-instance.html

=== Import the plugin project in Gradle
- For easier development you should import the plugin project into your IDE.
- The plugin module is not managed by the root gradle build file, so you have to import the module manually. This is purposefully done to avoid
  that the plugin build corrupts the root build.
- The plugin module has a dependency on the root build.
- You can manually import the `sechub-ide-plugin-jetbrains` into your IDE.

image::../images/gradle-import.png["Eugen" - the SecHub mascot]

== Start the plugin in sandbox mode

=== Gradle variant
Open the gradle toolwindow and execute `Tasks -> intellij -> runIde`

Or execute `./gradlew runIde` from terminal in the `sechub-ide-plugin-jetbrains` folder.

== Development HowTos

=== IntelliJ Sources not available, only decompiled
Open the IntelliJ class - now it is opened by the internal
decompiler. On the right top there is a button "Choose source".
Click on this. Now select the correct IntelliJ folder and search
for the correct subfolder (with a hash inside) - now select the source zip file for the installed/used version.

After this: **close** existing editor and open the class again.
Now you should the sources.

TIP: This comes very handy when you want to look for deprecated classes, e.g. inside `IconLoader`.

=== Intellij SDK HowTos
==== Tool windows
https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/tool-windows.html

Currently, we do NOT implement https://github.com/JetBrains/intellij-community/blob/idea/233.11799.241/platform/core-api/src/com/intellij/openapi/project/DumbAware.java[DumbAware] in SecHub Toolwindow,
because we want to ensure that we can open

==== Check plugin and configuration

[source]
----
./gradlew verifyPluginConfiguration verifyPlugin
----

NOTE: See https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/tools-gradle-intellij-plugin.html#tasks-verifypluginconfiguration

==== Check compatibility with newer IDEs
You receive mails from the marketplace about compatibility information etc. when new versions of IntellIJ
are available.

You could check this locally as well:

[source]
----
./gradlew runPluginVerifier
----
WARNING: This takes **much** time and downloads many IntelliJ versions (needs much space)

=== UI guide lines
- https://jetbrains.design/intellij/components/tool_window/
- https://jetbrains.design/intellij/controls/balloon/

==== Content tabs
https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/tool-windows.html#contents-tabs

==== Icons
https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/icons.html

==== IntelliJ swing components
https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/misc-swing-components.html

==== Actions
https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/basic-action-system.html#building-ui-from-actions

== Deployment

===  Local deployment/installation
NOTE: for details look at https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/managing-plugins.html

Build the plugin locally by calling:
```
./gradlew clean buildPlugin
```
After build is done, start your test IDE installation - e.g. the current Android Studio.

Open IDE settings, search for plugins, click on gear icon and select
"Install plugins from disk". +
Inside the new opened file chooser select the zip file in `${plugin-repo-location}/build/distributions/`

TIP: You can download the current Android Studio from https://developer.android.com/studio


=== Publishing to Marketplace
NOTE: Please read https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/publishing-plugin.html for details.

==== Manual
Open https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/23379-sechub
and upload the plugin manually.

==== Automation
Here a helper script to prepare a signed plugin deployment:

[sourc,sh]
----
#!/bin/bash
echo "Preparing for SecHub intellij plugin deployment"
echo "----------------------------------------------------------------------------------"
export SECHUB_CERTIFICATE_LOCATION=~/.keystores/deployment-keystore-certificate.crt <1>
export SECHUB_CERTIFICATE_CHAIN=$(<$SECHUB_CERTIFICATE_LOCATION)
export SECHUB_PRIVATE_KEY_LOCATION=~/.keystores/your-private-deployment-key.pem <2>
export SECHUB_PRIVATE_KEY=$(<$SECHUB_PRIVATE_KEY_LOCATION)

stty_orig=$(stty -g)

stty -echo

read -p "Enter private key: " SECHUB_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD
export SECHUB_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD
echo "" # new line...
read -p "Enter intellij publish token:" SECHUB_INTELLIJ_PUBLISH_TOKEN
export SECHUB_INTELLIJ_PUBLISH_TOKEN
echo "" # new line ...

stty $stty_orig
echo "All prepared, you can now switch to plugin root folder and execute './gradlew clean buildPlugin publishPlugin''"

----
<1> Your cert file
<2> Your private key file
